TF	Description	Literature	Link
Alfin-like	Alfin1 cDNA, obtained by differential screening of a poly(A)+ library from salt-tolerant alfalfa cells, encodes a novel protein with a Cys4 and His/Cys3 putative zinc-binding domain that suggests a possible role for this protein in transcriptional regulation. We have expressed the cDNA in Escherichia coli and show that the recombinant Alfin1 protein binds DNA in a sequence-specific manner. The DNA recognition sequence was determined from individual clones isolated after four rounds of random oligonucleotide selection in gel retardation assays, coupled with PCR amplification of the selected sequences. The consensus binding site for Alfin1 is shown to contain two to five G-rich triplets with the conserved core of GNGGTG or GTGGNG in clones showing high-efficiency binding. DNA binding of the recombinant Alfin1 was inhibited by EDTA. Alfin1 mRNA was found predominantly in alfalfa roots. Growth of salt-sensitive Medicago sativa L on 171 mM NaCl led to a slight decrease in Alfin1 mRNA, while the salt-tolerant plants showed no decrease in Alfin1 mRNA levels. Interestingly, recombinant Alfin1 binds efficiently to three fragments of the MsPRP2 promoter, each containing consensus sequences identified by the random oligonucleotide selection. Since MsPRP2 transcripts were shown to be root-specific and accumulated in alfalfa roots in a salt-inducible manner, Alfin1 may play a role in the regulated expression of MsPRP2 in alfalfa roots and contribute to salt tolerance in these plants.	Bastola DR, Pethe V V, Winicov I (1998) Alfin1, a novel zinc-finger protein in alfalfa roots that binds to promoter elements in the salt-inducible MsPRP2 gene. Plant Mol Biol 38: 1123--35	http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/9869418
B3-ARF	Auxin response factors (ARF) are key players in plant development. They mediate the cellular response to the plant hormone auxin by activating or repressing the expression of downstream developmental genes. The pivotal activation function of ARF proteins is enabled by their four-domain architecture, which includes both DNA-binding and protein dimerization motifs. To determine the evolutionary origin of this characteristic architecture, we built a comprehensive data set of 224 ARF-related protein sequences that represents all major living divisions of land plants, except hornworts. We found that ARFs are split into three subfamilies that could be traced back to the origin of the land plants. We also show that repeated events of extensive gene duplication contributed to the expansion of those three original subfamilies. Further examination of our data set uncovered a broad diversity in the structure of ARF transcripts and allowed us to identify an additional conserved motif in ARF proteins. We found that additional structural diversity in ARF proteins is mainly generated by two mechanisms: genomic truncation and alternative splicing. We propose that the loss of domains from the canonical, four-domain ARF structure has promoted functional shifts within the ARF family by disrupting either dimerization or DNA-binding capabilities. For instance, the loss of dimerization domains in some ARFs from moss and spikemoss genomes leads to proteins that are reminiscent of Aux/IAA proteins, possibly providing a clue on the evolution of these modulators of ARF function. We also assessed the functional impact of alternative splicing in the case of ARF4, for which we have identified a novel isoform in Arabidopsis thaliana. Genetic analysis showed that these two transcripts exhibit markedly different developmental roles in A. thaliana. Gene duplications, domain rearrangement, and post-transcriptional regulation have thus enabled a subtle control of auxin signaling through ARF proteins that may have contributed to the critical importance of these regulators in plant development and evolution.	Finet C, Berne-Dedieu A, Scutt CP, Marlétaz F (2013) Evolution of the ARF gene family in land plants: old domains, new tricks. Mol Biol Evol 30: 45--56	http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22977118
C2C2-Dof	Dof (DNA-binding with one finger) domain proteins are plant-specific transcription factors with a highly conserved DNA-binding domain, which presumably includes a single C(2)-C(2) zinc finger. During the past decade, numerous Dof domain proteins have been identified in both monocots and dicots including maize, barley, wheat, rice, tobacco, Arabidopsis, pumpkin, potato, and pea. Biochemical, molecular biological and molecular genetic analyses revealed that Dof domain proteins function as a transcriptional activator or a repressor involved in diverse plant-specific biological processes. Although more physiological roles of Dof domain proteins would be elucidated in future because of numerous Dof domain proteins in plants, it is already evident that the Dof domain proteins play critical roles as transcriptional regulators in plant growth and development. Here I summarize our current knowledge about Dof domain proteins. 	 Yanagisawa S (2004) Dof domain proteins: plant-specific transcription factors associated with diverse phenomena unique to plants. Plant Cell Physiol 45: 386--91	http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15111712
C2H2	Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) trichome development is a model system for studying cell development, cell differentiation, and the cell cycle. Our previous studies have shown that the GLABROUS INFLORESCENCE STEMS (GIS) family genes, GIS, GIS2, and ZINC FINGER PROTEIN8 (ZFP8), control shoot maturation and epidermal cell fate by integrating gibberellins (GAs) and cytokinin signaling in Arabidopsis. Here, we show that a new C2H2 zinc finger protein, ZFP5, plays an important role in controlling trichome cell development through GA signaling. Overexpression of ZFP5 results in the formation of ectopic trichomes on carpels and other inflorescence organs. zfp5 loss-of-function mutants exhibit a reduced number of trichomes on sepals, cauline leaves, paraclades, and main inflorescence stems in comparison with wild-type plants. More importantly, it is found that ZFP5 mediates the regulation of trichome initiation by GAs. These results are consistent with ZFP5 expression patterns and the regional influence of GA on trichome initiation. The molecular analyses suggest that ZFP5 functions upstream of GIS, GIS2, ZFP8, and the key trichome initiation regulators GLABROUS1 (GL1) and GL3. Using a steroid-inducible activation of ZFP5 and chromatin immunoprecipitation experiments, we further demonstrate that ZFP8 is the direct target of ZFP5 in controlling epidermal cell differentiation.	Zhou Z, An L, Sun L, Zhu S, Xi W, Broun P, Yu H, Gan Y (2011) Zinc finger protein5 is required for the control of trichome initiation by acting upstream of zinc finger protein8 in Arabidopsis. Plant Physiol 157: 673--82	http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21803862
DBB	Over 1,600 genes encoding putative transcription factors have been identified in the Arabidopsis genome sequence, however, their physiological functions are not yet fully understood. In this study, a small subfamily of double B-box zinc finger (DBB, DOUBLE B-BOX) genes, encoding eight putative transcription factors, were characterized with reference to the circadian rhythm and the early photomorphogenic regulation of hypocotyl elongation in response to light signals. Among these, it was found that the transcriptions of five DBB genes were under the control of circadian rhythm. To gain insight into the physiological roles of these putative transcription factors, forward and reverse genetic studies were carried out. The results suggested that they are commonly implicated in light signal transduction during early photomorphogenesis, however, their functions are not totally redundant, as judged by the fact that their circadian-expression profiles (or phases) were distinctive from each other, and by the fact that some DBBs (named DBB1a, DBB1b, STO, and STH) were apparently implicated in light signal transduction in a negative manner, whereas another (named DBB3) was implicated in a positive manner with regard to light-induced inhibition of elongation of hypocotyls. We also found that homologous B-box zinc finger genes are widely conserved in higher plants (e.g., Oryza sativa). Taking this altogether, it is probable that in addition to previously characterized bZIP-type transcription factors (e.g., HY5 and HYH) and bHLH-type transcription factors (e.g., PIF4 and PIF5/PIL6), a set of B-box zinc finger transcription factors should also be taken into consideration for a better understanding of the complex molecular mechanisms underlying the early photomorphogenic development of Arabidopsis thaliana.	Kumagai T, Ito S, Nakamichi N, Niwa Y, Murakami M, Yamashino T, Mizuno T (2008) The common function of a novel subfamily of B-Box zinc finger proteins with reference to circadian-associated events in Arabidopsis thaliana. Biosci Biotechnol Biochem 72: 1539--49	http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18540109
FAR1	Plants use light to optimize growth and development. The photoreceptor phytochrome A (phyA) mediates various far-red light-induced responses. We show that Arabidopsis FHY3 and FAR1, which encode two proteins related to Mutator-like transposases, act together to modulate phyA signaling by directly activating the transcription of FHY1 and FHL, whose products are essential for light-induced phyA nuclear accumulation and subsequent light responses. FHY3 and FAR1 have separable DNA binding and transcriptional activation domains that are highly conserved in Mutator-like transposases. Further, expression of FHY3 and FAR1 is negatively regulated by phyA signaling. We propose that FHY3 and FAR1 represent transcription factors that have been co-opted from an ancient Mutator-like transposase(s) to modulate phyA-signaling homeostasis in higher plants.	Lin R, Ding L, Casola C, Ripoll DR, Feschotte C, Wang H (2007) Transposase-derived transcription factors regulate light signaling in Arabidopsis. Science 318: 1302--5	http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18033885
GRF	Growth-regulating factors (GRFs) are plant-specific transcription factors that were originally identified for their roles in stem and leaf development, but recent studies highlight them to be similarly important for other central developmental processes including flower and seed formation, root development, and the coordination of growth processes under adverse environmental conditions. The expression of several GRFs is controlled by microRNA miR396, and the GRF-miRNA396 regulatory module appears to be central to several of these processes. In addition, transcription factors upstream of GRFs and miR396 have been discovered, and gradually downstream target genes of GRFs are being unraveled. Here, we review the current knowledge of the biological functions performed by GRFs and survey available molecular data to illustrate how they exert their roles at the cellular level.	Omidbakhshfard MA, Proost S, Fujikura U, Mueller-Roeber B (2015) Growth-Regulating Factors (GRFs): A Small Transcription Factor Family with Important Functions in Plant Biology. Mol Plant 8: 998--1010	http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25620770
HB-other	The full complement of homeobox transcription factor sequences, including genes and pseudogenes, was determined from the analysis of 10 complete genomes from flowering plants, moss, Selaginella, unicellular green algae, and red algae. Our exhaustive genome-wide searches resulted in the discovery in each class of a greater number of homeobox genes than previously reported. All homeobox genes can be unambiguously classified by sequence evolutionary analysis into 14 distinct classes also characterized by conserved intron-exon structure and by unique codomain architectures. We identified many new genes belonging to previously defined classes (HD-ZIP I to IV, BEL, KNOX, PLINC, WOX). Other newly identified genes allowed us to characterize PHD, DDT, NDX, and LD genes as members of four new evolutionary classes and to define two additional classes, which we named SAWADEE and PINTOX. Our comprehensive analysis allowed us to identify several newly characterized conserved motifs, including novel zinc finger motifs in SAWADEE and DDT. Members of the BEL and KNOX classes were found in Chlorobionta (green plants) and in Rhodophyta. We found representatives of the DDT, WOX, and PINTOX classes only in green plants, including unicellular green algae, moss, and vascular plants. All 14 homeobox gene classes were represented in flowering plants, Selaginella, and moss, suggesting that they had already differentiated in the last common ancestor of moss and vascular plants.	Mukherjee K, Brocchieri L, Bürglin TR (2009) A comprehensive classification and evolutionary analysis of plant homeobox genes. Mol Biol Evol 26: 2775--94	http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19734295
LFY	Despite great advances in sequencing technologies, generating functional information for nonmodel organisms remains a challenge. One solution lies in an improved ability to predict genetic circuits based on primary DNA sequence in combination with detailed knowledge of regulatory proteins that have been characterized in model species. Here, we focus on the LEAFY (LFY) transcription factor, a conserved master regulator of floral development. Starting with biochemical and structural information, we built a biophysical model describing LFY DNA binding specificity in vitro that accurately predicts in vivo LFY binding sites in the Arabidopsis thaliana genome. Applying the model to other plant species, we could follow the evolution of the regulatory relationship between LFY and the AGAMOUS (AG) subfamily of MADS box genes and show that this link predates the divergence between monocots and eudicots. Remarkably, our model succeeds in detecting the connection between LFY and AG homologs despite extensive variation in binding sites. This demonstrates that the cis-element fluidity recently observed in animals also exists in plants, but the challenges it poses can be overcome with predictions grounded in a biophysical model. Therefore, our work opens new avenues to deduce the structure of regulatory networks from mere inspection of genomic sequences.	Moyroud E, Minguet EG, Ott F, Yant L, Posé D, Monniaux M, Blanchet S, Bastien O, Thévenon E, Weigel D, et al (2011) Prediction of regulatory interactions from genome sequences using a biophysical model for the Arabidopsis LEAFY transcription factor. Plant Cell 23: 1293--306	http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21515819
MYB-related	The MYB family of proteins is large, functionally diverse and represented in all eukaryotes. Most MYB proteins function as transcription factors with varying numbers of MYB domain repeats conferring their ability to bind DNA. In plants, the MYB family has selectively expanded, particularly through the large family of R2R3-MYB. Members of this family function in a variety of plant-specific processes, as evidenced by their extensive functional characterization in Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana). MYB proteins are key factors in regulatory networks controlling development, metabolism and responses to biotic and abiotic stresses. The elucidation of MYB protein function and regulation that is possible in Arabidopsis will provide the foundation for predicting the contributions of MYB proteins to the biology of plants in general.	Dubos C, Stracke R, Grotewold E, Weisshaar B, Martin C, Lepiniec L (2010) MYB transcription factors in Arabidopsis. Trends Plant Sci 15: 573--81	http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20674465
NF-X1	The class II major histocompatibility complex (MHC) molecules function in the presentation of processed peptides to helper T cells. As most mammalian cells can endocytose and process foreign antigen, the critical determinant of an antigen-presenting cell is its ability to express class II MHC molecules. Expression of these molecules is usually restricted to cells of the immune system and dysregulated expression is hypothesized to contribute to the pathogenesis of a severe combined immunodeficiency syndrome and certain autoimmune diseases. Human complementary DNA clones encoding a newly identified, cysteine-rich transcription factor, NF-X1, which binds to the conserved X-box motif of class II MHC genes, were obtained, and the primary amino acid sequence deduced. The major open reading frame encodes a polypeptide of 1,104 amino acids with a symmetrical organization. A central cysteine-rich portion encodes the DNA-binding domain, and is subdivided into seven repeated motifs. This motif is similar to but distinct from the LIM domain and the RING finger family, and is reminiscent of known metal-binding regions. The unique arrangement of cysteines indicates that the consensus sequence CX3CXL-XCGX1-5HXCX3CHXGXC represents a novel cysteine-rich motif. Two lines of evidence indicate that the polypeptide encodes a potent and biologically relevant repressor of HLA-DRA transcription: (a) overexpression of NF-X1 from a retroviral construct strongly decreases transcription from the HLA-DRA promoter; and (b) the NF-X1 transcript is markedly induced late after induction with interferon gamma (IFN-gamma), coinciding with postinduction attenuation of HLA-DRA transcription. The NF-X1 protein may therefore play an important role in regulating the duration of an inflammatory response by limiting the period in which class II MHC molecules are induced by IFN-gamma.	Song Z, Krishna S, Thanos D, Strominger JL, Ono SJ (1994) A novel cysteine-rich sequence-specific DNA-binding protein interacts with the conserved X-box motif of the human major histocompatibility complex class II genes via a repeated Cys-His domain and functions as a transcriptional repressor. J Exp Med 180: 1763--74	http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/7964459
S1Fa-like	A cDNA encoding a specific binding activity for the tissue-specific negative cis-element S1F binding site of spinach rps1 was isolated from a spinach cDNA expression library. This cDNA of 0.7 kb encodes an unusual small peptide of only 70 amino acids, with a basic domain which contains a nuclear localization signal and a putative DNA binding helix. This protein, named S1Fa, is highly conserved between dicotyledonous and monocotyledonous plants and may represent a novel class of DNA binding proteins. The corresponding mRNA is accumulated more in roots and in etiolated seedlings than in green leaves. This expression pattern is correlated with the tissue-specific function of the S1F binding site which represses the rps1 promoter preferentially in roots and in etiolated plants.	Zhou DX, Bisanz-Seyer C, Mache R (1995) Molecular cloning of a small DNA binding protein with specificity for a tissue-specific negative element within the rps1 promoter. Nucleic Acids Res 23: 1165--9	http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/7739894
TCP	The TCP transcription factors govern key plant developmental processes and have profound effects on the growth patterns of meristems and organs, partly explained by direct transcriptional control of cell cycle genes. This view is nevertheless incomplete, as accumulated evidence indicates that TCPs also act through other mechanisms, such as the regulation of hormone activity. Several TCP factors not only act as mediators of hormone-induced changes in cell proliferation, but also as modulators, or even key players, of hormone synthesis, transport and signal transduction. This adds another layer of complexity to the role of TCPs in plant development.	Nicolas M, Cubas P (2016) TCP factors: new kids on the signaling block. Curr Opin Plant Biol 33: 33--41	http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27310029
VOZ	A 38-bp pollen-specific cis-acting region of the AVP1 gene is involved in the expression of the Arabidopsis thaliana V-PPase during pollen development. Here, we report the isolation and structural characterization of AtVOZ1 and AtVOZ2, novel transcription factors that bind to the 38-bp cis-acting region of A. thaliana V-PPase gene, AVP1. AtVOZ1 and AtVOZ2 show 53% amino acid sequence similarity. Homologs of AtVOZ1 and AtVOZ2 are found in various vascular plants as well as a moss, Physcomitrella patens. Promoter-beta-glucuronidase reporter analysis shows that AtVOZ1 is specifically expressed in the phloem tissue and AtVOZ2 is strongly expressed in the root. In vivo transient effector-reporter analysis in A. thaliana suspension-cultured cells demonstrates that AtVOZ1 and AtVOZ2 function as transcriptional activators in the Arabidopsis cell. Two conserved regions termed Domain-A and Domain-B were identified from an alignment of AtVOZ proteins and their homologs of O. sativa and P. patens. AtVOZ2 binds as a dimer to the specific palindromic sequence, GCGTNx7ACGC, with Domain-B, which is comprised of a functional novel zinc coordinating motif and a conserved basic region. Domain-B is shown to function as both the DNA-binding and the dimerization domains of AtVOZ2. From highly the conservative nature among all identified VOZ proteins, we conclude that Domain-B is responsible for the DNA binding and dimerization of all VOZ-family proteins and designate it as the VOZ-domain.	Mitsuda N, Hisabori T, Takeyasu K, Sato MH (2004) VOZ; isolation and characterization of novel vascular plant transcription factors with a one-zinc finger from Arabidopsis thaliana. Plant Cell Physiol 45: 845--54	http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15295067
AP2/ERF-ERF	Genes in the ERF family encode transcriptional regulators with a variety of functions involved in the developmental and physiological processes in plants. In this study, a comprehensive computational analysis identified 122 and 139 ERF family genes in Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) and rice (Oryza sativa L. subsp. japonica), respectively. A complete overview of this gene family in Arabidopsis is presented, including the gene structures, phylogeny, chromosome locations, and conserved motifs. In addition, a comparative analysis between these genes in Arabidopsis and rice was performed. As a result of these analyses, the ERF families in Arabidopsis and rice were divided into 12 and 15 groups, respectively, and several of these groups were further divided into subgroups. Based on the observation that 11 of these groups were present in both Arabidopsis and rice, it was concluded that the major functional diversification within the ERF family predated the monocot/dicot divergence. In contrast, some groups/subgroups are species specific. We discuss the relationship between the structure and function of the ERF family proteins based on these results and published information. It was further concluded that the expansion of the ERF family in plants might have been due to chromosomal/segmental duplication and tandem duplication, as well as more ancient transposition and homing. These results will be useful for future functional analyses of the ERF family genes.	Nakano T, Suzuki K, Fujimura T, Shinshi H (2006) Genome-wide analysis of the ERF gene family in Arabidopsis and rice. Plant Physiol 140: 411--32	http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16407444
BBR-BPC	INNER NO OUTER (INO) expression is limited to the abaxial cell layer of the incipient and developing outer integument in Arabidopsis ovules. Using deletion analysis of the previously defined INO promoter (P-INO), at least three distinct regions that contribute to the endogenous INO expression pattern were identified. One such positive element, designated POS9, which comprises at least three distinct subelements, was found to include sufficient information to duplicate the INO expression pattern when four or more copies were used in conjunction with a heterologous minimal promoter. While known regulators of INO, including INO, SUPERMAN, BELL1, and AINTEGUMENTA, did not detectably interact with POS9 in yeast one-hybrid assays, two groups of proteins that interact specifically with POS9 were identified in one-hybrid library screens. Members of one group include C2H2 zinc finger motifs. Members of the second group contain a novel, conserved DNA-binding region and were designated the BASIC PENTACYSTEINE (BPC) proteins on the basis of conserved features of this region. The BPC proteins are nuclear localized and specifically bind in vitro to GA dinucleotide repeats located within POS9. The widespread expression patterns of the BPCs and the large number of GA repeat potential target sequences in the Arabidopsis genome indicate that BPC proteins may affect expression of genes involved in a variety of plant processes.	Meister RJ, Williams LA, Monfared MM, Gallagher TL, Kraft EA, Nelson CG, Gasser CS (2004) Definition and interactions of a positive regulatory element of the Arabidopsis INNER NO OUTER promoter. Plant J 37: 426--38	http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/14731261
C2C2-GATA	GATA transcription factors are a group of DNA binding proteins broadly distributed in eukaryotes. The GATA factors DNA binding domain is a class IV zinc finger motif in the form CX(2)CX(17-20)CX(2)C followed by a basic region. In plants, GATA DNA motifs have been implicated in light-dependent and nitrate-dependent control of transcription. Herein, we show that the Arabidopsis and the rice (Oryza sativa) genomes present 29 and 28 loci, respectively, that encode for putative GATA factors. A phylogenetic analysis of the 57 GATA factors encoding genes, as well as the study of their intron-exon structure, indicates the existence of seven subfamilies of GATA genes. Some of these subfamilies are represented in both species but others are exclusive for one of them. In addition to the GATA zinc finger motif, polypeptides of the different subfamilies are characterized by the presence of additional domains such as an acidic domain, a CCT (CONSTANS, CO-like, and TOC1) domain, or a transposase-like domain also found in FAR1 and FHY3. Subfamily VI comprises genes that encode putative bi-zinc finger polypeptides, also found in metazoan and fungi, and a tri-zinc finger protein which has not been previously reported in eukaryotes. The phylogeny of the GATA zinc finger motif, excluding flanking regions, evidenced the existence of four classes of GATA zinc fingers, three of them containing 18 residues in the zinc finger loop and one containing a 20-residue loop. Our results support multiple models of evolution of the GATA gene family in plants including gene duplication and exon shuffling.	Reyes JC, Muro-Pastor MI, Florencio FJ (2004) The GATA family of transcription factors in Arabidopsis and rice. Plant Physiol 134: 1718--32	http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15084732
C3H	We used virtual subtraction, a new gene isolation strategy, to isolate several genes of interest that are expressed in Arabidopsis embryos. These genes have demonstrated biological properties or have the potential to be involved in important biological processes. One gene isolated by virtual subtraction is PEI. It encodes a protein containing a Cys3His zinc finger domain associated with a number of animal and fungal transcription factors. In situ hybridization results showed that PEI1 is expressed throughout the embryo from globular to late cotyledon stage. Transgenic Arabidopsis plants expressing a PEI1 antisense gene produced white seeds in which embryo development did not progress through heart stage. Aberrant embryos failed to form cotyledons, but the embryonic root appeared to be normal. Aberrant embryos did not turn green, and the expression of genes involved in photomorphogenesis was drastically attenuated. In culture, aberrant embryos did not form true leaves, but root formation was apparently normal. These results suggest that PEI1 is an embryo-specific transcription factor that plays an important role during Arabidopsis embryogenesis, functioning primarily in the apical domain of the embryo.	Li Z, Thomas TL (1998) PEI1, an embryo-specific zinc finger protein gene required for heart-stage embryo formation in Arabidopsis. Plant Cell 10: 383--98	http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/9501112
DBP	We have isolated a single-copy gene from the plant Arabidopsis thaliana, called dbp, which encodes a lysine-rich, DNA-binding protein. The Dbp protein has a molecular weight and a composition resembling histone H1. When the dbp gene was expressed in bacteria, the protein product bound DNA nonspecifically. The dbp gene is expressed constitutively in all parts of the plant but is induced five times above this basal level in apical zones. In vitro hormone-depletion experiments showed that the expression in the shoot apex could be induced by exogenous auxin. In situ hybridizations in the root apex indicated that the expression of dbp is enhanced in the region of cell division.	Alliotte T, Tiré C, Engler G, Peleman J, Caplan A, Van Montagu M, Inzé D (1989) An Auxin-Regulated Gene of Arabidopsis thaliana Encodes a DNA-Binding Protein. Plant Physiol 89: 743--52	http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16666616
GARP-ARR-B	In the phosphorelay-mediated cytokinin signal transduction of Arabidopsis thaliana, certain members of the type-B authentic response regulator (ARR) family are implicated in the regulatory networks that are primarily propagated by the cytokinin-receptors [authentic histidine kinases (AHKs)]. Clarification of the involvement of each type-B ARR transcription factor in cytokinin-responsive phenomena is still at a very early stage. Here we analyzed the redundant function of two type-B ARR genes, ARR10 and ARR12, by constructing an arr10/arr12 double mutant. The resulting mutant plants showed stronger phenotypes with special reference to the cytokinin action in roots (e.g. inhibition of root elongation, green callus formation from root explants) than those for each single mutant, suggesting that ARR10 and ARR12 redundantly play an important role in the cytokinin signaling in roots. This idea was further supported by results from root-specific microarray analyses with the double mutant plant. We also showed that ARR10 and ARR12 are involved in the AHK-dependent signaling pathway that negatively regulates protoxylem specification in root vascular tissues. When the double mutant is combined with an arr1 allele, the resultant arr1/arr10/arr12 triple mutant showed phenotypes displaying a very poor growth, quite similar to those of the wooden leg (wol) mutant that virtually lacks cytokinin receptor activities in plants. In this triple arr mutant, the specification of root vascular tissues is also affected as severely as in wol. Taken together, we propose that ARR10 and ARR12, together with ARR1, redundantly play pivotal roles in the AHK-dependent phosphorelay signaling in response to cytokinin in roots.	Yokoyama A, Yamashino T, Amano Y-I, Tajima Y, Imamura A, Sakakibara H, Mizuno T (2007) Type-B ARR transcription factors, ARR10 and ARR12, are implicated in cytokinin-mediated regulation of protoxylem differentiation in roots of Arabidopsis thaliana. Plant Cell Physiol 48: 84--96	http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17132632
HB-BELL	Interactions between TALE (three-amino acid loop extension) homeodomain proteins play important roles in the development of both fungi and animals. Although in plants, two different subclasses of TALE proteins include important developmental regulators, the existence of interactions between plant TALE proteins has remained unexplored. We have used the yeast two-hybrid system to demonstrate that the Arabidopsis BELL1 (BEL1) homeodomain protein can selectively heterodimerize with specific KNAT homeodomain proteins. Interaction is mediated by BEL1 sequences N terminal to the homeodomain and KNAT sequences including the MEINOX domain. These findings validate the hypothesis that the MEINOX domain has been conserved between plants and animals as an interaction domain for developmental regulators. In yeast, BEL1 and KNAT proteins can activate transcription only as a heterodimeric complex, suggesting a role for such complexes in planta. Finally, overlapping patterns of BEL1 and SHOOT MERISTEMLESS (STM) expression within the inflorescence meristem suggest a role for the BEL1-STM complex in maintaining the indeterminacy of the inflorescence meristem.	Bellaoui M, Pidkowich MS, Samach A, Kushalappa K, Kohalmi SE, Modrusan Z, Crosby WL, Haughn GW (2001) The Arabidopsis BELL1 and KNOX TALE homeodomain proteins interact through a domain conserved between plants and animals. Plant Cell 13: 2455--70	http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/11701881
HB-WOX	WOX (Wuschel-like homeobOX) genes form a family of plant-specific HOMEODOMAIN transcription factors, the members of which play important developmental roles in a diverse range of processes. WOX genes were first identified as determining cell fate during embryo development, as well as playing important roles in maintaining stem cell niches in the plant. In recent years, new roles have been identified in plant architecture and organ development, particularly at the flower level.	Costanzo E, Trehin C, Vandenbussche M (2014) The role of WOX genes in flower development. Ann Bot 114: 1545--53	http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24973416
LIM	First described 15 years ago as a cysteine-rich sequence that was common to a small group of homeodomain transcription factors, the LIM domain is now recognized as a tandem zinc-finger structure that functions as a modular protein-binding interface. LIM domains are present in many proteins that have diverse cellular roles as regulators of gene expression, cytoarchitecture, cell adhesion, cell motility and signal transduction. An emerging theme is that LIM proteins might function as biosensors that mediate communication between the cytosolic and the nuclear compartments.	Kadrmas JL, Beckerle MC (2004) The LIM domain: from the cytoskeleton to the nucleus. Nat Rev Mol Cell Biol 5: 920--31	http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15520811
NAC	NAC proteins constitute one of the largest families of plant-specific transcription factors, and the family is present in a wide range of land plants. Here, we summarize the biological and molecular functions of the NAC family, paying particular attention to the intricate regulation of NAC protein level and localization, and to the first indications of NAC participation in transcription factor networks. The recent determination of the DNA and protein binding NAC domain structure offers insight into the molecular functions of the protein family. Research into NAC transcription factors has demonstrated the importance of this protein family in the biology of plants and the need for further studies.	Olsen AN, Ernst HA, Leggio L Lo, Skriver K (2005) NAC transcription factors: structurally distinct, functionally diverse. Trends Plant Sci 10: 79--87	http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15708345
NOZZLE	The ovules of Arabidopsis show polarity along the proximal-distal and the adaxial-abaxial axis. NOZZLE, a gene that encodes a novel protein and BELL1, encoding a homeodomain protein, play a vital role in pattern formation along the proximal-distal axis. INNER NO OUTER, which encodes a member of the YABBY family of transcription factors and SUPERMAN, encoding a zinc finger transcription factor, are essential for the establishment and maintenance of adaxial-abaxial polarity. To date, the co-ordination of patterning along these two axes is unclear. Here we show that NOZZLE plays a vital role in pattern formation along the adaxial-abaxial axis as well. We investigated the expression of INNER NO OUTER in various mutant backgrounds and have identified ABERRANT TESTA SHAPE and NOZZLE as spatial regulators of INNER NO OUTER expression. In addition, we show that NOZZLE and AINTEGUMENTA, which encodes an AP2 domain transcription factor, regulate the temporal expression of INNER NO OUTER and that BELL1 is essential for INNER NO OUTER expression. We further analysed the expression of BELL1 and AINTEGUMENTA in inner no outer mutants and show that the positive auto-regulatory control of INNER NO OUTER expression involves AINTEGUMENTA. Based on our results we propose a model for adaxial-abaxial pattern formation during ovule development. Our results indicate that NOZZLE plays a central role in patterning both the proximal-distal and the adaxial-abaxial axes. Furthermore, negatively regulating INO expression in a temporal manner, ensures that the adaxial-abaxial polarity is established after the specification of the chalaza, a proximal-distal axis pattern element. It therefore serves as a molecular link between these processes during ovule development in Arabidopsis thaliana.	Balasubramanian S, Schneitz K (2002) NOZZLE links proximal-distal and adaxial-abaxial pattern formation during ovule development in Arabidopsis thaliana. Development 129: 4291--300	http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12183381
SAP	A recessive mutation in the Arabidopsis STERILE APETALA (SAP) causes severe aberrations in inflorescence and flower and ovule development. In sap flowers, sepals are carpelloid, petals are short and narrow or absent, and anthers are degenerated. Megasporogenesis, the process of meiotic divisions preceding the female gametophyte formation, is arrested in sap ovules during or just after the first meiotic division. More severe aberrations were observed in double mutants between sap and mutant alleles of the floral homeotic gene APETALA2 (AP2) suggesting that both genes are involved in the initiation of female gametophyte development. Together with the organ identity gene AGAMOUS (AG) SAP is required for the maintenance of floral identity acting in a manner similar to APETALA1. In contrast to the outer two floral organs in sap mutant flowers, normal sepals and petals develop in ag/sap double mutants, indicating that SAP negatively regulates AG expression in the perianth whorls. This supposed cadastral function of SAP is supported by in situ hybridization experiments showing ectopic expression of AG in the sap mutant. We have cloned the SAP gene by transposon tagging and revealed that it encodes a novel protein with sequence motifs, that are also present in plant and animal transcription regulators. Consistent with the mutant phenotype, SAP is expressed in inflorescence and floral meristems, floral organ primordia, and ovules. Taken together, we propose that SAP belongs to a new class of transcription regulators essential for a number of processes in Arabidopsis flower development.	Byzova M V, Franken J, Aarts MG, de Almeida-Engler J, Engler G, Mariani C, Van Lookeren Campagne MM, Angenent GC (1999) Arabidopsis STERILE APETALA, a multifunctional gene regulating inflorescence, flower, and ovule development. Genes Dev 13: 1002--14	http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/10215627
Tify	The ZIM domain was originally identified in the ZIM protein (BAA97679; Zinc-finger protein expressed in Inflorescence Meristem). Since then it has been found in other proteins and the corresponding genes have been grouped into a plant-specific family. However, the family lacks consistency in its classification among different databases. Here, we try to clarify this incongruity by presenting an overview of the Arabidopsis proteins having this domain. The presented genome-wide survey can be seen as a start point to reveal the unknown function of these proteins. Furthermore, because of the confusing ZIM nomenclature being used at present, we propose to rename the domain and family as tify, after the most conserved amino acid motif characterizing the members of this family.	Vanholme B, Grunewald W, Bateman A, Kohchi T, Gheysen G (2007) The tify family previously known as ZIM. Trends Plant Sci 12: 239--44	http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17499004
Whirly	Members of the Whirly family of proteins are found throughout the plant kingdom and are predicted to share the ability to bind to single-stranded DNA. Arabidopsis and potato Whirly orthologs act as transcription factors that regulate defense gene expression; the Arabidopsis Whirly protein AtWhy1 contributes to both basal and specific defense responses. Analysis of the crystal structure of potato StWhy1 has provided insight into the DNA-binding mechanism of this family of proteins, their mode of action and possible autoregulation. There is evidence to suggest that Whirly proteins might play roles in processes other than defense responses and could function in the chloroplast as well as in the nucleus.	Desveaux D, Maréchal A, Brisson N (2005) Whirly transcription factors: defense gene regulation and beyond. Trends Plant Sci 10: 95--102	http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15708347
AP2/ERF-RAV	Ralstonia solanacearum is the causal agent of bacterial wilt (BW), one of the most important bacterial diseases worldwide. We used cDNA microarray to survey the gene expression profile in transgenic tomato (Solanum lycopersicum) overexpressing Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) CBF1 (AtCBF1), which confers tolerance to BW. The disease-resistant phenotype is correlated with constitutive expression of the Related-to-ABI3/VP1 (RAV) transcription factor, ethylene-responsive factor (ERF) family genes, and several pathogenesis-related (PR) genes. Using a transient assay system, we show that tomato RAV2 (SlRAV2) can transactivate the reporter gene driven by the SlERF5 promoter. Virus-induced gene silencing of SlERF5 and SlRAV2 in AtCBF1 transgenic and BW-resistant cultivar Hawaii 7996 plants gave rise to plants with enhanced susceptibility to BW. Constitutive overexpression of SlRAV2 in transgenic tomato plants induced the expression of SlERF5 and PR5 genes and increased BW tolerance, while knockdown of expression of SlRAV2 inhibited SlERF5 and PR5 gene expression under pathogen infection and significantly decreased BW tolerance. In addition, transgenic tomato overexpressing SlERF5 also accumulated higher levels of PR5 transcripts and displayed better tolerance to pathogen than wild-type plants. From these results, we conclude that SlERFs may act as intermediate transcription factors between AtCBF1 and PR genes via SlRAV in tomato, which results in enhanced tolerance to BW.	Li C-W, Su R-C, Cheng C-P, Sanjaya, You S-J, Hsieh T-H, Chao T-C, Chan M-T (2011) Tomato RAV transcription factor is a pivotal modulator involved in the AP2/EREBP-mediated defense pathway. Plant Physiol 156: 213--27	http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21398258
BES1	Brassinosteroids (BRs) signal through a plasma membrane-localized receptor kinase to regulate plant growth and development. We showed previously that a novel protein, BES1, accumulates in the nucleus in response to BRs, where it plays a role in BR-regulated gene expression; however, the mechanism by which BES1 regulates gene expression is unknown. In this study, we dissect BES1 subdomains and establish that BES1 is a transcription factor that binds to and activates BR target gene promoters both in vitro and in vivo. BES1 interacts with a basic helix-loop-helix protein, BIM1, to synergistically bind to E box (CANNTG) sequences present in many BR-induced promoters. Loss-of-function and gain-of-function mutants of BIM1 and its close family members display BR response phenotypes. Thus, BES1 defines a new class of plant-specific transcription factors that cooperate with transcription factors such as BIM1 to regulate BR-induced genes.	Yin Y, Vafeados D, Tao Y, Yoshida S, Asami T, Chory J (2005) A new class of transcription factors mediates brassinosteroid-regulated gene expression in Arabidopsis. Cell 120: 249--59	http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15680330
C2C2-YABBY	The establishment of abaxial-adaxial polarity in lateral organs involves factors intrinsic to the primordia and interactions with the apical meristem from which they are derived. Recently, a small plant-specific family of genes, the YABBY gene family, has been proposed to specify abaxial cell fate. Each asymmetric above-ground lateral organ expresses at least one member of the family in a polar manner, and loss- and gain-of-function studies indicate that they are sufficient to specify abaxial cell fate and that they act in both distinct and redundant manners.	Bowman JL (2000) The YABBY gene family and abaxial cell fate. Curr Opin Plant Biol 3: 17--22	http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/10679447
CAMTA	The Arabidopsis thaliana CBF cold response pathway plays a central role in cold acclimation. It is characterized by rapid cold induction of genes encoding the CBF1-3 transcription factors, followed by expression of the CBF gene regulon, which imparts freezing tolerance. Our goal was to further the understanding of the cis-acting elements and trans-acting factors involved in expression of CBF2. We identified seven conserved DNA motifs (CM), CM1 to 7, that are present in the promoters of CBF2 and another rapidly cold-induced gene encoding a transcription factor, ZAT12. The results presented indicate that in the CBF2 promoter, CM4 and CM6 have negative regulatory activity and that CM2 has both negative and positive activity. A Myc binding site in the CBF2 promoter was also found to have positive regulatory effects. Moreover, our results indicate that members of the calmodulin binding transcription activator (CAMTA) family of transcription factors bind to the CM2 motif, that CAMTA3 is a positive regulator of CBF2 expression, and that double camta1 camta3 mutant plants are impaired in freezing tolerance. These results establish a role for CAMTA proteins in cold acclimation and provide a possible point of integrating low-temperature calcium and calmodulin signaling with cold-regulated gene expression.	Doherty CJ, Van Buskirk HA, Myers SJ, Thomashow MF (2009) Roles for Arabidopsis CAMTA transcription factors in cold-regulated gene expression and freezing tolerance. Plant Cell 21: 972--84	http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19270186
DDT	Homology-based sequence analyses have revealed the presence of a novel domain (DDT) in bromodomain PHD finger transcription factors (BPTFs), chromatin remodeling factors of the BAZ-family and other putative nuclear proteins. This domain is characterized by a number of conserved aromatic and charged residues and is predicted to consist of three alpha helices. Recent studies indicate a likely DNA-binding function for the DDT domain.	Doerks T, Copley R, Bork P (2001) DDT -- a novel domain in different transcription and chromosome remodeling factors. Trends Biochem Sci 26: 145--6	http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/11246006
GARP-G2-like	Modern tomato (Solanum lycopersicum) varieties are bred for uniform ripening (u) light green fruit phenotypes to facilitate harvests of evenly ripened fruit. U encodes a Golden 2-like (GLK) transcription factor, SlGLK2, which determines chlorophyll accumulation and distribution in developing fruit. In tomato, two GLKs--SlGLK1 and SlGLK2--are expressed in leaves, but only SlGLK2 is expressed in fruit. Expressing GLKs increased the chlorophyll content of fruit, whereas SlGLK2 suppression recapitulated the u mutant phenotype. GLK overexpression enhanced fruit photosynthesis gene expression and chloroplast development, leading to elevated carbohydrates and carotenoids in ripe fruit. SlGLK2 influences photosynthesis in developing fruit, contributing to mature fruit characteristics and suggesting that selection of u inadvertently compromised ripe fruit quality in exchange for desirable production traits.	Powell ALT, Nguyen C V, Hill T, Cheng KL, Figueroa-Balderas R, Aktas H, Ashrafi H, Pons C, Fernández-Muñoz R, Vicente A, et al (2012) Uniform ripening encodes a Golden 2-like transcription factor regulating tomato fruit chloroplast development. Science 336: 1711--5	http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22745430
HB-KNOX	knox genes encode homeodomain-containing transcription factors that are required for meristem maintenance and proper patterning of organ initiation. In plants with simple leaves, knox genes are expressed exclusively in the meristem and stem, but in dissected leaves, they are also expressed in leaf primordia, suggesting that they may play a role in the diversity of leaf form. This hypothesis is supported by the intriguing phenotypes found in gain-of-function mutations where knox gene misexpression affects leaf and petal shape. Similar phenotypes are also found in recessive mutations of genes that function to negatively regulate knox genes. KNOX proteins function as heterodimers with other homeodomains in the TALE superclass. The gibberellin and lignin biosynthetic pathways are known to be negatively regulated by KNOX proteins, which results in indeterminate cell fates.	Hake S, Smith HMS, Holtan H, Magnani E, Mele G, Ramirez J (2004) The role of knox genes in plant development. Annu Rev Cell Dev Biol 20: 125--51	http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15473837
HRT	A barley gene encoding a novel DNA-binding protein (HRT) was identified by southwestern screening with baits containing a gibberellin phytohormone response element from an alpha-amylase promoter. The HRT gene contains two introns, the larger of which (5722 base pairs (bp)) contains a 3094-bp LINE-like element with homology to maize Colonist1. In vitro mutagenesis and zinc- and DNA-binding assays demonstrate that HRT contains three unusual zinc fingers with a CX8-9CX10CX2H consensus sequence. HRT is targeted to nuclei, and homologues are expressed in other plants. In vivo, functional tests in plant cells indicate that full-length HRT can repress expression from certain promoters including the Amy1/6-4 and Amy2/32 alpha-amylase promoters. In contrast, truncated forms of HRT containing DNA-binding domains can activate, or derepress, transcription from these promoters. Northern hybridizations indicate that HRT mRNA accumulates to low levels in various tissues. Roles for HRT in mediating developmental and phytohormone-responsive gene expression are discussed.	Raventós D, Skriver K, Schlein M, Karnahl K, Rogers SW, Rogers JC, Mundy J (1998) HRT, a novel zinc finger, transcriptional repressor from barley. J Biol Chem 273: 23313--20	http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/9722564
MADS-MIKC	Plant life critically depends on the function of MADS-box genes encoding MADS-domain transcription factors, which are present to a limited extent in nearly all major eukaryotic groups, but constitute a large gene family in land plants. There are two types of MADS-box genes, termed type I and type II, and in plants these groups are distinguished by exon-intron and domain structure, rates of evolution, developmental function and degree of functional redundancy. The type I genes are further subdivided into three groups - M alpha, M beta and M gamma - while the type II genes are subdivided into the MIKCC and MIKC* groups. The functional diversification of MIKCC genes is closely linked to the origin of developmental and morphological novelties in the sporophytic (usually diploid) generation of seed plants, most spectacularly the floral organs and fruits of angiosperms. Functional studies suggest different specializations for the different classes of genes; whereas type I genes may preferentially contribute to female gametophyte, embryo and seed development and MIKC*-group genes to male gametophyte development, the MIKCC-group genes became essential for diverse aspects of sporophyte development. Beyond the usual transcriptional regulation, including feedback and feed-forward loops, various specialized mechanisms have evolved to control the expression of MADS-box genes, such as epigenetic control and regulation by small RNAs. In future, more data from genome projects and reverse genetic studies will allow us to understand the birth, functional diversification and death of members of this dynamic and important family of transcription factors in much more detail.	Gramzow L, Theissen G (2010) A hitchhikerâ€™s guide to the MADS world of plants. Genome Biol 11: 214	http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20587009
NF-X1	The class II major histocompatibility complex (MHC) molecules function in the presentation of processed peptides to helper T cells. As most mammalian cells can endocytose and process foreign antigen, the critical determinant of an antigen-presenting cell is its ability to express class II MHC molecules. Expression of these molecules is usually restricted to cells of the immune system and dysregulated expression is hypothesized to contribute to the pathogenesis of a severe combined immunodeficiency syndrome and certain autoimmune diseases. Human complementary DNA clones encoding a newly identified, cysteine-rich transcription factor, NF-X1, which binds to the conserved X-box motif of class II MHC genes, were obtained, and the primary amino acid sequence deduced. The major open reading frame encodes a polypeptide of 1,104 amino acids with a symmetrical organization. A central cysteine-rich portion encodes the DNA-binding domain, and is subdivided into seven repeated motifs. This motif is similar to but distinct from the LIM domain and the RING finger family, and is reminiscent of known metal-binding regions. The unique arrangement of cysteines indicates that the consensus sequence CX3CXL-XCGX1-5HXCX3CHXGXC represents a novel cysteine-rich motif. Two lines of evidence indicate that the polypeptide encodes a potent and biologically relevant repressor of HLA-DRA transcription: (a) overexpression of NF-X1 from a retroviral construct strongly decreases transcription from the HLA-DRA promoter; and (b) the NF-X1 transcript is markedly induced late after induction with interferon gamma (IFN-gamma), coinciding with postinduction attenuation of HLA-DRA transcription. The NF-X1 protein may therefore play an important role in regulating the duration of an inflammatory response by limiting the period in which class II MHC molecules are induced by IFN-gamma.	Song Z, Krishna S, Thanos D, Strominger JL, Ono SJ (1994) A novel cysteine-rich sequence-specific DNA-binding protein interacts with the conserved X-box motif of the human major histocompatibility complex class II genes via a repeated Cys-His domain and functions as a transcriptional repressor. J Exp Med 180: 1763--74	http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/7964459
OFP	Transcription factors regulate multiple aspects of plant growth and development. Here we report the identification and functional analysis of a plant-specific, novel transcription factor in Arabidopsis. We isolated a dominant, gain-of-function mutant that displays reduced lengths in all aerial organs including hypocotyl, rosette leaf, cauline leaf, inflorescence stem, floral organs and silique. Molecular cloning revealed that these phenotypes are caused by elevated expression of the Arabidopsis thaliana Ovate Family Protein 1 (AtOFP1). This mutant was designated as Atofp1-1D. We show that the altered morphology of Atofp1-1D mutant is caused by reduced cell length resulting from reduced cell elongation, and demonstrate that a mutant harboring a transposon insertion that disrupts the OVATE domain of AtOFP1 is indistinguishable from wild-type plants. Plants overexpressing other closely related AtOFP genes phenocopy plants overexpressing AtOFP1, implying a possible overlapping function among members of the AtOFP gene family. We found that AtOFP1 localizes in the nucleus, and that AtOFP1 functions as an active transcriptional repressor. Chromatin immunoprecipitation results indicated that AtGA20ox1, a gene encoding the key enzyme in GA biosynthesis, is a target gene regulated by AtOFP1. Consistent with this, exogenous gibberellic acid can partially restore defects in cell elongation in plants overexpressing AtOFP1, suggesting that such a reduced cell elongation is caused, in part, by the deficiency in gibberellin biosynthesis. Taken together, our results indicate that AtOFP1 is an active transcriptional repressor that has a role in regulating cell elongation in plants.	Wang S, Chang Y, Guo J, Chen J-G (2007) Arabidopsis Ovate Family Protein 1 is a transcriptional repressor that suppresses cell elongation. Plant J 50: 858--72	http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17461792
SBP	SQUAMOSA Promoter-Binding Protein-Like (SPL) genes encode plant-specific transcription factors that play important roles in plant phase transition, flower and fruit development, plant architecture, gibberellins signaling, sporogenesis, and response to copper and fungal toxins. In Arabidopsis, many SPL genes are post-transcriptionally regulated by the microRNA (miRNA) miR156, among which AtSPL9 in turn positively regulates the expression of the second miRNA miR172. This miR156-AtSPL9-miR172 regulatory pathway plays critical roles during juvenile to adult leaf development and the miR156-SPLs feedback interaction persists all through the plant development, which may be conserved in other plants. In the present paper, we provide a concise review on the most recent progress in the regulatory mechanisms associated with plant SPL transcription factors, especially in relation to miRNAs. The potential application of these discoveries in agriculture is briefly discussed.	Chen X, Zhang Z, Liu D, Zhang K, Li A, Mao L (2010) SQUAMOSA promoter-binding protein-like transcription factors: star players for plant growth and development. J Integr Plant Biol 52: 946--51	http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20977652
Trihelix	GT factors are the founding members of the trihelix transcription factor family. They bind GT elements in light regulated genes, and their nature was uncovered in a burst of activity in the 1990s. Study of the trihelix family then slowed. However, interest is now re-awakening. Genomic studies have revealed 30 members of this family in Arabidopsis and 31 in rice, falling into five clades. Newly discovered functions involve responses to salt and pathogen stresses, the development of perianth organs, trichomes, stomata and the seed abscission layer, and the regulation of late embryogenesis. Thus the time is ripe for a review of the genomic and functional information now emerging for this neglected family.	Kaplan-Levy RN, Brewer PB, Quon T, Smyth DR (2012) The trihelix family of transcription factors--light, stress and development. Trends Plant Sci 17: 163--71	http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22236699
WRKY	WRKY transcription factors are one of the largest families of transcriptional regulators in plants and form integral parts of signalling webs that modulate many plant processes. Here, we review recent significant progress in WRKY transcription factor research. New findings illustrate that WRKY proteins often act as repressors as well as activators, and that members of the family play roles in both the repression and de-repression of important plant processes. Furthermore, it is becoming clear that a single WRKY transcription factor might be involved in regulating several seemingly disparate processes. Mechanisms of signalling and transcriptional regulation are being dissected, uncovering WRKY protein functions via interactions with a diverse array of protein partners, including MAP kinases, MAP kinase kinases, 14-3-3 proteins, calmodulin, histone deacetylases, resistance proteins and other WRKY transcription factors. WRKY genes exhibit extensive autoregulation and cross-regulation that facilitates transcriptional reprogramming in a dynamic web with built-in redundancy.	Rushton PJ, Somssich IE, Ringler P, Shen QJ (2010) WRKY transcription factors. Trends Plant Sci 15: 247--58	http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20304701
AP2/ERF-AP2	AINTEGUMENTA (ANT) and APETALA2 (AP2) are transcription factors that are involved in several developmental processes in Arabidopsis thaliana. They are similar in structure, containing two AP2 domains, and have partially redundant functions in reproductive organ development. Expression and functional analyses of ANT and AP2 homologs have been performed previously in almost all angiosperms. In this study, one ANT homolog and two AP2 homologs were isolated from the gymnosperm Pinus thunbergii and were named PtANTL1, PtAP2L1, and PtAP2L2. PtANTL1 is the first reported gymnosperm ANT homologous gene. Based on a gene tree constructed with sequences of all A. thaliana two-AP2-domain-containing genes, it is likely that PtANTL1 and ANT, and likewise PtAP2L1 and AP2, are orthologs. The expression patterns of PtANTL1/PtAP2L1/PtAP2L2 were examined with Southern hybridization of the quantitative RT-PCR products and in situ hybridization. PtANTL1 and PtAP2L1 had almost identical expression patterns in the analyzed organs, and PtANTL1/PtAP2L1/PtAP2L2 were continually expressed in the developing female cone. Our analysis suggests that gymnosperms have orthologs to both ANT and AP2, and that the most recent common ancestor of extant seed plants has two type AP2 subfamily genes, ANT-like and AP2-like, involved in the development of female reproductive organs.	Shigyo M, Ito M (2004) Analysis of gymnosperm two-AP2-domain-containing genes. Dev Genes Evol 214: 105--14	http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/14986134
bHLH	The basic/helix-loop-helix (bHLH) proteins are a superfamily of transcription factors that bind as dimers to specific DNA target sites and that have been well characterized in nonplant eukaryotes as important regulatory components in diverse biological processes. Based on evidence that the bHLH protein PIF3 is a direct phytochrome reaction partner in the photoreceptor's signaling network, we have undertaken a comprehensive computational analysis of the Arabidopsis genome sequence databases to define the scope and features of the bHLH family. Using a set of criteria derived from a previously defined consensus motif, we identified 147 bHLH protein-encoding genes, making this one of the largest transcription factor families in Arabidopsis. Phylogenetic analysis of the bHLH domain sequences permits classification of these genes into 21 subfamilies. The evolutionary and potential functional relationships implied by this analysis are supported by other criteria, including the chromosomal distribution of these genes relative to duplicated genome segments, the conservation of variant exon/intron structural patterns, and the predicted DNA binding activities within subfamilies. Considerable diversity in DNA binding site specificity among family members is predicted, and marked divergence in protein sequence outside of the conserved bHLH domain is observed. Together with the established propensity of bHLH factors to engage in varying degrees of homodimerization and heterodimerization, these observations suggest that the Arabidopsis bHLH proteins have the potential to participate in an extensive set of combinatorial interactions, endowing them with the capacity to be involved in the regulation of a multiplicity of transcriptional programs. We provide evidence from yeast two-hybrid and in vitro binding assays that two related phytochrome-interacting members in the Arabidopsis family, PIF3 and PIF4, can form both homodimers and heterodimers and that all three dimeric configurations can bind specifically to the G-box DNA sequence motif CACGTG. These data are consistent, in principle, with the operation of this combinatorial mechanism in Arabidopsis.	Toledo-Ortiz G, Huq E, Quail PH (2003) The Arabidopsis basic/helix-loop-helix transcription factor family. Plant Cell 15: 1749--70	http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12897250
C2C2-CO-like	A family of CONSTANS LIKE genes (COLs) has recently been identified in Arabidopsis thaliana and other plant species. CONSTANS, the first isolated member, is a putative zinc finger transcription factor that promotes the induction of flowering in A. thaliana in long photoperiods. Phylogenetic analysis of the COL family demonstrated that it is organized into a few distinct groups, some of which evolved before the divergence of gymnosperms and angiosperms. Molecular evolutionary analyses showed that COL genes within the Brassicaceae family evolve rapidly. The number of nonsynonymous substitutions was larger, and the ratio of nonsynonymous to synonymous substitutions was higher. The analysis also indicated that the rate of evolution is heterogeneous between different domains in the COL genes. The results support previous data indicating that plant regulatory genes evolve relatively fast and that the rate of evolution varies significantly between different regions of those genes. The rate of evolution of COL genes seems to have accelerated during later stages of evolution, possibly as an effect of frequent gene duplications.	Lagercrantz U, Axelsson T (2000) Rapid evolution of the family of CONSTANS LIKE genes in plants. Mol Biol Evol 17: 1499--507	http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/11018156
CPP	Cysteine-rich polycomb-like protein (CPP-like) genes are a group of transcription factors with highly conserved cysteine-rich domains and are widely distributed in animals and plants, but do not present in yeast. Previous studies have shown that members of this family play important roles in the development of reproductive tissue and in the control of cell division in plants. In this study, whole genome identification of soybean CPP transcription factors was performed using bioinformatic methods. The results showed that there were 20 CPP transcription factors in the soybean genome, which encoded for 28 distinct CPP proteins. These transcription factors were distributed on 16 of 20 chromosomes. Phylogenetic relationship analysis showed that expression of CPP gene family members occurred before the differentiation of monocotyledons and dicotyledons. RNA-Seq analysis showed that 5 genes were highly expressed in all tissues, including Glyma10g39080, Glyma01g44670, Glyma101g66920, Glyma02g01540, and Glyma20g28740. One gene (Glyma14g14750) was specifically expressed in young leaves, while 2 genes (Glyma02g01540 and Glyma10g01580) were highly expressed in root nodules. Quantitative reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction analysis revealed that the expression levels of most genes increased in the roots under high temperature stress. Our findings indicate that these genes are not only involved in growth and development, but also in the responses to high temperature stress in soybean roots.	Zhang L, Zhao HK, Wang YM, Yuan CP, Zhang YY, Li HY, Yan XF, Li QY, Dong YS (2015) Genome-wide identification and expression analysis of the CPP-like gene family in soybean. Genet Mol Res 14: 1260--8	http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25730064
E2F-DP	The balance between cell proliferation and differentiation is crucial in multicellular organisms, where it is regulated by complex gene expression networks. This is particularly relevant in plants because organogenesis is a continuous postembryonic process. Here, we investigate the function of Arabidopsis thaliana E2Ff, an atypical member of the E2F family of transcription factors, which acts independently of a dimerization partner. We have focused our analysis on roots and hypocotyls, organs where (1) cell proliferation and differentiation are spatially and/or temporally separated, (2) growth depends on cell expansion in the longitudinal axis, and (3) the AtE2Ff promoter is active. AtE2Ff overexpression produced a reduction in the size of differentiated cells of these organs. Cells of mutant e2ff-1 plants with reduced levels of AtE2Ff mRNA were larger, especially in the hypocotyl, suggesting a role as a growth regulator. These effects of AtE2Ff are not associated with changes in nuclear ploidy levels or in the expression of cell cycle marker genes. However, expression of a subset of cell wall biogenesis genes is misregulated in an AtE2Ff-dependent manner, and based on chromatin immunoprecipitation experiments, they seem to be direct E2F targets. Our results highlight the complex regulatory function exerted by E2F and suggest a possible role of AtE2Ff in repressing cell wall biosynthesis genes during cell elongation in differentiated cells.	Ramirez-Parra E, López-Matas MA, Fründt C, Gutierrez C (2004) Role of an atypical E2F transcription factor in the control of Arabidopsis cell growth and differentiation. Plant Cell 16: 2350--63	http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15308755
GeBP	Understanding the role of transcription factors (TFs) is essential in reconstructing developmental regulatory networks. The plant-specific GeBP TF family of Arabidopsis thaliana (Arabidopsis) comprises 21 members, all of unknown function. A subset of four members, the founding member GeBP and GeBP-like proteins (GPL) 1, 2, and 3, shares a conserved C-terminal domain. Here we report that GeBP/GPL genes represent a newly defined class of leucine-zipper (Leu-zipper) TFs and that they play a redundant role in cytokinin hormone pathway regulation. Specifically, we demonstrate using yeast, in vitro, and split-yellow fluorescent protein in planta assays that GeBP/GPL proteins form homo- and heterodimers through a noncanonical Leu-zipper motif located in the C-terminal domain. A triple loss-of-function mutant of the three most closely related genes gebp gpl1 gpl2 shows a reduced sensitivity to exogenous cytokinins in a subset of cytokinin responses such as senescence and growth, whereas root inhibition is not affected. We find that transcript levels of type-A cytokinin response genes, which are involved in the negative feedback regulation of cytokinin signaling, are higher in the triple mutant. Using a GPL version that acts as a constitutive transcriptional activator, we show that the regulation of Arabidopsis response regulators (ARRs) is mediated by at least one additional, as yet unknown, repressor acting genetically downstream in the GeBP/GPL pathway. Our results indicate that GeBP/GPL genes encode a new class of unconventional Leu-zipper TF proteins and suggest that their role in the cytokinin pathway is to antagonize the negative feedback regulation on ARR genes to trigger the cytokinin response.	Chevalier F, Perazza D, Laporte F, Le Hénanff G, Hornitschek P, Bonneville J-M, Herzog M, Vachon G (2008) GeBP and GeBP-like proteins are noncanonical leucine-zipper transcription factors that regulate cytokinin response in Arabidopsis. Plant Physiol 146: 1142--54	http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18162594
HB-other	The full complement of homeobox transcription factor sequences, including genes and pseudogenes, was determined from the analysis of 10 complete genomes from flowering plants, moss, Selaginella, unicellular green algae, and red algae. Our exhaustive genome-wide searches resulted in the discovery in each class of a greater number of homeobox genes than previously reported. All homeobox genes can be unambiguously classified by sequence evolutionary analysis into 14 distinct classes also characterized by conserved intron-exon structure and by unique codomain architectures. We identified many new genes belonging to previously defined classes (HD-ZIP I to IV, BEL, KNOX, PLINC, WOX). Other newly identified genes allowed us to characterize PHD, DDT, NDX, and LD genes as members of four new evolutionary classes and to define two additional classes, which we named SAWADEE and PINTOX. Our comprehensive analysis allowed us to identify several newly characterized conserved motifs, including novel zinc finger motifs in SAWADEE and DDT. Members of the BEL and KNOX classes were found in Chlorobionta (green plants) and in Rhodophyta. We found representatives of the DDT, WOX, and PINTOX classes only in green plants, including unicellular green algae, moss, and vascular plants. All 14 homeobox gene classes were represented in flowering plants, Selaginella, and moss, suggesting that they had already differentiated in the last common ancestor of moss and vascular plants.	Mukherjee K, Brocchieri L, Bürglin TR (2009) A comprehensive classification and evolutionary analysis of plant homeobox genes. Mol Biol Evol 26: 2775--94	http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19734295
HSF	Abiotic stresses such as high temperature, salinity, and drought adversely affect the survival, growth, and reproduction of plants. Plants respond to such unfavorable changes through developmental, physiological, and biochemical ways, and these responses require expression of stress-responsive genes, which are regulated by a network of transcription factors (TFs), including heat stress transcription factors (HSFs). HSFs play a crucial role in plants response to several abiotic stresses by regulating the expression of stress-responsive genes, such as heat shock proteins (Hsps). In this review, we describe the conserved structure of plant HSFs, the identification of HSF gene families from various plant species, their expression profiling under abiotic stress conditions, regulation at different levels and function in abiotic stresses. Despite plant HSFs share highly conserved structure, their remarkable diversification across plants reflects their numerous functions as well as their integration into the complex stress signaling and response networks, which can be employed in crop improvement strategies via biotechnological intervention.	Guo M, Liu J-H, Ma X, Luo D-X, Gong Z-H, Lu M-H (2016) The Plant Heat Stress Transcription Factors (HSFs): Structure, Regulation, and Function in Response to Abiotic Stresses. Front Plant Sci 7: 114	http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26904076
MADS-M-type	Plant life critically depends on the function of MADS-box genes encoding MADS-domain transcription factors, which are present to a limited extent in nearly all major eukaryotic groups, but constitute a large gene family in land plants. There are two types of MADS-box genes, termed type I and type II, and in plants these groups are distinguished by exon-intron and domain structure, rates of evolution, developmental function and degree of functional redundancy. The type I genes are further subdivided into three groups - M alpha, M beta and M gamma - while the type II genes are subdivided into the MIKCC and MIKC* groups. The functional diversification of MIKCC genes is closely linked to the origin of developmental and morphological novelties in the sporophytic (usually diploid) generation of seed plants, most spectacularly the floral organs and fruits of angiosperms. Functional studies suggest different specializations for the different classes of genes; whereas type I genes may preferentially contribute to female gametophyte, embryo and seed development and MIKC*-group genes to male gametophyte development, the MIKCC-group genes became essential for diverse aspects of sporophyte development. Beyond the usual transcriptional regulation, including feedback and feed-forward loops, various specialized mechanisms have evolved to control the expression of MADS-box genes, such as epigenetic control and regulation by small RNAs. In future, more data from genome projects and reverse genetic studies will allow us to understand the birth, functional diversification and death of members of this dynamic and important family of transcription factors in much more detail.	Gramzow L, Theissen G (2010) A hitchhikerâ€™s guide to the MADS world of plants. Genome Biol 11: 214	http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20587009
NF-YA	The CCAAT motif is one of the common promoter elements present in the proximal promoter of numerous mammalian genes transcribed by RNA polymerase II. CBF (also called NF-Y and CP1) consists of three different subunits and interacts specifically with the CCAAT motif. In each CBF subunit, the segment needed for formation of the CBF-DNA complex is conserved from yeast to human and, interestingly, the conserved segment of two CBF subunits, CBF-A and CBF-C, are homologous to the histone-fold motif of eukaryotic histones and archaebacterial histone-like protein HMf-2. The histone fold motifs of CBF-A and CBF-C interact with each other to form a heterodimer that associates with CBF-B to form a heterotrimeric CBF molecule, which then binds to DNA.	Maity SN, de Crombrugghe B (1998) Role of the CCAAT-binding protein CBF/NF-Y in transcription. Trends Biochem Sci 23: 174--8	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/9612081
PLATZ	Complementary DNA encoding a DNA-binding protein, designated PLATZ1 (plant AT-rich sequence- and zinc-binding protein 1), was isolated from peas. The amino acid sequence of the protein is similar to those of other uncharacterized proteins predicted from the genome sequences of higher plants. However, no paralogous sequences have been found outside the plant kingdom. Multiple alignments among these paralogous proteins show that several cysteine and histidine residues are invariant, suggesting that these proteins are a novel class of zinc-dependent DNA-binding proteins with two distantly located regions, C-x(2)-H-x(11)-C-x(2)-C-x((4-5))-C-x(2)-C-x((3-7))-H-x(2)-H and C-x(2)-C-x((10-11))-C-x(3)-C. In an electrophoretic mobility shift assay, the zinc chelator 1,10-o-phenanthroline inhibited DNA binding, and two distant zinc-binding regions were required for DNA binding. A protein blot with (65)ZnCl(2) showed that both regions are required for zinc-binding activity. The PLATZ1 protein non-specifically binds to A/T-rich sequences, including the upstream region of the pea GTPase pra2 and plastocyanin petE genes. Expression of the PLATZ1 repressed those of the reporter constructs containing the coding sequence of luciferase gene driven by the cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV) 35S90 promoter fused to the tandem repeat of the A/T-rich sequences. These results indicate that PLATZ1 is a novel class of plant-specific zinc-dependent DNA-binding protein responsible for A/T-rich sequence-mediated transcriptional repression.	Nagano Y, Furuhashi H, Inaba T, Sasaki Y (2001) A novel class of plant-specific zinc-dependent DNA-binding protein that binds to A/T-rich DNA sequences. Nucleic Acids Res 29: 4097--105	http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/11600698
SRS	Gene duplication events, and the subsequent functional divergence of duplicates, are believed to be important evolutionary agents, driving morphological diversification. We have studied the structural and functional diversification of members of a plant-specific gene family in Arabidopsis thaliana by analysing mutant phenotypes, expression patterns and phylogeny. The SHI gene family comprises ten members that encode proteins with a RING finger-like zinc finger motif. We show that, despite being highly divergent in sequence, except in two conserved regions, many of the SHI-related genes are partially redudant in function and synergistically promote gynoecium, stamen and leaf development in Arabidopsis. Gynoecia of the loss-of-function sty1-1 mutant display subtle morphological defects, and, although mutations in the related STY2, SHI, SRS3, SRS4, SRS5, SRS7 and LRP1 genes have no apparent effect on gynoecium development, the sty1-1 mutant phenotype is gradually enhanced in double, triple, quadruple and quintuple mutant combinations, suggesting a remarkably extensive functional conservation within the family, which appears to be based on dosage dependency and protection against dominant negative mutations. In multiple mutant lines, all marginal tissues in the apical part of the gynoecium are dramatically reduced or missing, and our data indicate that SHI family members may promote formation of these tissues downstream of the transcriptional co-repressor LEUNIG (LUG).	Kuusk S, Sohlberg JJ, Magnus Eklund D, Sundberg E (2006) Functionally redundant SHI family genes regulate Arabidopsis gynoecium development in a dose-dependent manner. Plant J 47: 99--111	http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16740146
TUB	In mammals, TUBBY-like proteins play an important role in maintenance and function of neuronal cells during postdifferentiation and development. We have identified a TUBBY-like protein gene family with 11 members in Arabidopsis, named AtTLP1-11. Although seven of the AtTLP genes are located on chromosome I, no local tandem repeats or gene clusters are identified. Except for AtTLP4, reverse transcription-PCR analysis indicates that all these genes are expressed in various organs in 6-week-old Arabidopsis. AtTLP1, 2, 3, 6, 7, 9, 10, and 11 are expressed ubiquitously in all the organs tested, but the expression of AtTLP5 and 8 shows dramatic organ specificity. These 11 family members share 30% to 80% amino acid similarities across their conserved C-terminal tubby domains. Unlike the highly diverse N-terminal region of animal TUBBY-like proteins, all AtTLP members except AtTLP8 contain a conserved F-box domain (51-57 residues). The interaction between AtTLP9 and ASK1 (Arabidopsis Skp1-like 1) is confirmed via yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) two-hybrid assays. Abscisic acid (ABA)-insensitive phenotypes are observed for two independent AtTLP9 mutant lines, whereas transgenic plants overexpressing AtTLP9 are hypersensitive to ABA. These results suggest that AtTLP9 may participate in the ABA signaling pathway.	Lai C-P, Lee C-L, Chen P-H, Wu S-H, Yang C-C, Shaw J-F (2004) Molecular analyses of the Arabidopsis TUBBY-like protein gene family. Plant Physiol 134: 1586--97	http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15064372
zf-HD	We are interested in the regulatory mechanisms responsible for the mesophyll-specific expression of C4 phosphoenolpyruvate carboxylase (PEPCase). A one-hybrid screen resulted in the cloning of four different members of a novel class of plant homeodomain proteins, which are most likely involved in the mesophyll-specific expression of the C4 PEPCase gene in C4 species of the genus Flaveria. Inspection of the homeodomains of the four proteins reveals that they share many common features with homeodomains described so far, but there are also significant differences. Interestingly, this class of homeodomain proteins occurs also in Arabidopsis thaliana and other C3 plants. One-hybrid experiments as well as in vitro DNA binding studies confirmed that these novel homeodomain proteins specifically interact with the proximal region of the C4 PEPCase gene. The N-terminal domains of the homeodomain proteins contain highly conserved sequence motifs. Two-hybrid experiments show that these motifs are sufficient to confer homo- or heterodimer formation between the proteins. Mutagenesis of conserved cysteine resiues within the dimerization domain indicates that these residues are essential for dimer formation. Therefore, we designate this novel class of homeobox proteins ZF-HD, for zinc finger homeodomain protein. Our data suggest that the ZF-HD class of homeodomain proteins may be involved in the establishment of the characteristic expression pattern of the C4 PEPCase gene.	Windhövel A, Hein I, Dabrowa R, Stockhaus J (2001) Characterization of a novel class of plant homeodomain proteins that bind to the C4 phosphoenolpyruvate carboxylase gene of Flaveria trinervia. Plant Mol Biol 45: 201--14	http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/11289511
B3	The plant-specific B3 superfamily encompasses well-characterized families, such as the auxin response factor (ARF) family and the LAV family, as well as less well understood families, such as RAV and REM. In Arabidopsis, there are 118 B3 genes, and in rice there are 91 B3 genes. The B3 domain is present in genes from gymnosperms, mosses and green algae, indicating that the B3 domain evolved on the plant lineage before multicellularity. The aim of this review is to phylogenetically characterize the members of the B3 family in Arabidopsis and rice and to review the function of the B3 genes that have been studied to date.	Swaminathan K, Peterson K, Jack T (2008) The plant B3 superfamily. Trends Plant Sci 13: 647--55	http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18986826
bZIP	In plants, basic region/leucine zipper motif (bZIP) transcription factors regulate processes including pathogen defence, light and stress signalling, seed maturation and flower development. The Arabidopsis genome sequence contains 75 distinct members of the bZIP family, of which approximately 50 are not described in the literature. Using common domains, the AtbZIP family can be subdivided into ten groups. Here, we review the available data on bZIP functions in the context of subgroup membership and discuss the interacting proteins. This integration is essential for a complete functional characterization of bZIP transcription factors in plants, and to identify functional redundancies among AtbZIP factors.	Jakoby M, Weisshaar B, Dröge-Laser W, Vicente-Carbajosa J, Tiedemann J, Kroj T, Parcy F, bZIP Research Group (2002) bZIP transcription factors in Arabidopsis. Trends Plant Sci 7: 106--11	http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/11906833
C2C2-Dof	Dof (DNA-binding with one finger) domain proteins are plant-specific transcription factors with a highly conserved DNA-binding domain, which presumably includes a single C(2)-C(2) zinc finger. During the past decade, numerous Dof domain proteins have been identified in both monocots and dicots including maize, barley, wheat, rice, tobacco, Arabidopsis, pumpkin, potato, and pea. Biochemical, molecular biological and molecular genetic analyses revealed that Dof domain proteins function as a transcriptional activator or a repressor involved in diverse plant-specific biological processes. Although more physiological roles of Dof domain proteins would be elucidated in future because of numerous Dof domain proteins in plants, it is already evident that the Dof domain proteins play critical roles as transcriptional regulators in plant growth and development. Here I summarize our current knowledge about Dof domain proteins.	Yanagisawa S (2004) Dof domain proteins: plant-specific transcription factors associated with diverse phenomena unique to plants. Plant Cell Physiol 45: 386--91	http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15111712
CSD	We show that the open reading frame transcribed from the unr gene (immediately upstream of N-ras) in mammals consists of multiple repeats similar to the cold-shock domain (CSD), a putative DNA-binding motif found in prokaryotic cold-shock proteins, and eukaryotic DNA-binding proteins. Alignment of the CSD sequences of unr with those from other proteins reveals a core of similarity for which a consistent secondary structure prediction can be derived. This prediction suggests that the CSD consists primarily of beta-sheet, in contrast to most known eukaryotic DNA-binding proteins. Sequence analysis of the 3' end of the guinea pig unr gene shows that the core of one CSD repeat is encoded in a single exon, consistent with the modular assembly of the gene from ancestral CSD-coding units.	Doniger J, Landsman D, Gonda MA, Wistow G (1992) The product of unr, the highly conserved gene upstream of N-ras, contains multiple repeats similar to the cold-shock domain (CSD), a putative DNA-binding motif. New Biol 4: 389--95	http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/1622933
EIL	The plant hormone ethylene regulates many aspects of growth, development and responses to the environment. The Arabidopsis ETHYLENE INSENSITIVE3 (EIN3) protein is a nuclear-localized component of the ethylene signal-transduction pathway with DNA-binding activity. Loss-of-function mutations in this protein result in ethylene insensitivity in Arabidopsis. To gain a better understanding of the ethylene signal-transduction pathway in tomato, we have identified three homologs of the Arabidopsis EIN3 gene (LeEILs). Each of these genes complemented the ein3-1 mutation in transgenic Arabidopsis, indicating that all are involved in ethylene signal transduction. Transgenic tomato plants with reduced expression of a single LeEIL gene did not exhibit significant changes in ethylene response; reduced expression of multiple tomato LeEIL genes was necessary to reduce ethylene sensitivity significantly. Reduced LeEIL expression affected all ethylene responses examined, including leaf epinasty, flower abscission, flower senescence and fruit ripening. Our results indicate that the LeEILs are functionally redundant and positive regulators of multiple ethylene responses throughout plant development.	Tieman DM, Ciardi JA, Taylor MG, Klee HJ (2001) Members of the tomato LeEIL (EIN3-like) gene family are functionally redundant and regulate ethylene responses throughout plant development. Plant J 26: 47--58	http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/11359609
GRAS	The molecular mechanisms of plant growth and development have been analyzed in detail during the past years. The critical role of a plant-specific family of GRAS domain proteins in these processes has become apparent. In this review we highlight the importance of DELLA proteins in gibberellic acid (GA) and light signaling, the regulation of root patterning by SCR-SHR interactions and the requirement of two GRAS proteins from legumes, NSP1 and NSP2, for root nodule symbiosis. We discuss common and distinct molecular mechanisms underlying GRAS protein function and emphasise new discoveries regarding their function as transcription factors and the role of protein movement in refining their mode of action.	Hirsch S, Oldroyd GED (2009) GRAS-domain transcription factors that regulate plant development. Plant Signal Behav 4: 698--700	http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19820314
HB-PHD	The proper timing of flowering is critical for successful reproduction. The perception of the seasonal cues of day-length changes and exposure to cold influences flowering time in many plant species through the photoperiod and vernalization pathways, respectively. Here we show that a plant homeodomain (PHD) finger-containing protein, VIN3-LIKE 1 (VIL1), participates in both the photoperiod and vernalization pathways in Arabidopsis thaliana by regulating expression of the related floral repressors FLOWERING LOCUS C (FLC) and FLOWERING LOCUS M (FLM). In the vernalization pathway, VIL1, along with VERNALIZATION INSENSITIVE 3 (VIN3), is necessary for the modifications to FLC and FLM chromatin that are associated with an epigenetically silenced state and with acquisition of competence to flower. In addition, VIL1 regulates FLM independently of VIN3 in a photoperiod-dependent manner.	Sung S, Schmitz RJ, Amasino RM (2006) A PHD finger protein involved in both the vernalization and photoperiod pathways in Arabidopsis. Genes Dev 20: 3244--8	http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17114575
LBD	Conserved in a variety of evolutionarily divergent plant species, LOB DOMAIN (LBD) genes define a large, plant-specific family of largely unknown function. LBD genes have been implicated in a variety of developmental processes in plants, although to date, relatively few members have been assigned functions. LBD proteins have previously been predicted to be transcription factors, however supporting evidence has only been circumstantial. To address the biochemical function of LBD proteins, we identified a 6-bp consensus motif recognized by a wide cross-section of LBD proteins, and showed that LATERAL ORGAN BOUNDARIES (LOB), the founding member of the family, is a transcriptional activator in yeast. Thus, the LBD genes encode a novel class of DNA-binding transcription factors. Post-translational regulation of transcription factors is often crucial for control of gene expression. In our study, we demonstrate that members of the basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH) family of transcription factors are capable of interacting with LOB. The expression patterns of bHLH048 and LOB overlap at lateral organ boundaries. Interestingly, the interaction of bHLH048 with LOB results in reduced affinity of LOB for the consensus DNA motif. Thus, our studies suggest that bHLH048 post-translationally regulates the function of LOB at lateral organ boundaries.	Husbands A, Bell EM, Shuai B, Smith HMS, Springer PS (2007) LATERAL ORGAN BOUNDARIES defines a new family of DNA-binding transcription factors and can interact with specific bHLH proteins. Nucleic Acids Res 35: 6663--71	http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17913740
MYB	The MYB family of proteins is large, functionally diverse and represented in all eukaryotes. Most MYB proteins function as transcription factors with varying numbers of MYB domain repeats conferring their ability to bind DNA. In plants, the MYB family has selectively expanded, particularly through the large family of R2R3-MYB. Members of this family function in a variety of plant-specific processes, as evidenced by their extensive functional characterization in Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana). MYB proteins are key factors in regulatory networks controlling development, metabolism and responses to biotic and abiotic stresses. The elucidation of MYB protein function and regulation that is possible in Arabidopsis will provide the foundation for predicting the contributions of MYB proteins to the biology of plants in general.	Dubos C, Stracke R, Grotewold E, Weisshaar B, Martin C, Lepiniec L (2010) MYB transcription factors in Arabidopsis. Trends Plant Sci 15: 573--81	http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20674465
NF-YB	The CCAAT motif is one of the common promoter elements present in the proximal promoter of numerous mammalian genes transcribed by RNA polymerase II. CBF (also called NF-Y and CP1) consists of three different subunits and interacts specifically with the CCAAT motif. In each CBF subunit, the segment needed for formation of the CBF-DNA complex is conserved from yeast to human and, interestingly, the conserved segment of two CBF subunits, CBF-A and CBF-C, are homologous to the histone-fold motif of eukarotic histones and archaebacterial histone-like protein HMf-2. The histone fold motifs of CBF-A and CBF-C interact with each other to form a heterodimer that associates with CBF-B to form a heterotrimeric CBF molecule, which then binds to DNA.	Maity SN, de Crombrugghe B (1998) Role of the CCAAT-binding protein CBF/NF-Y in transcription. Trends Biochem Sci 23: 174--8	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/9612081
RWP-RK	The plant specific RWP-RK family of transcription factors, initially identified in legumes and Chlamydomonas, are found in all vascular plants, green algae, and slime molds. These proteins possess a characteristic RWP-RK motif, which mediates DNA binding. Based on phylogenetic and domain analyses, we classified the RWP-RK proteins of six different species in two subfamilies: the NIN-like proteins (NLPs), which carry an additional PB1 domain at their C-terminus, and the RWP-RK domain proteins (RKDs), which are divided into three subgroups. Although, the functional analysis of this family is still in its infancy, several RWP-RK proteins have a key role in regulating responses to nitrogen availability. The nodulation-specific NIN proteins are involved in nodule organogenesis and rhizobial infection under nitrogen starvation conditions. Arabidopsis NLP7 in particular is a major player in the primary nitrate response. Several RKDs act as transcription factors involved in egg cell specification and differentiation or gametogenesis in algae, the latter modulated by nitrogen availability. Further studies are required to extend the general picture of the functional role of these exciting transcription factors.	Chardin C, Girin T, Roudier F, Meyer C, Krapp A (2014) The plant RWP-RK transcription factors: key regulators of nitrogen responses and of gametophyte development. J Exp Bot 65: 5577--87	http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24987011
STAT	CudA, a nuclear protein required for Dictyostelium prespore-specific gene expression, binds in vivo to the promoter of the cotC prespore gene. A 14 nucleotide region of the cotC promoter binds CudA in vitro and ECudA, an Entamoeba CudA homologue, also binds to this site. The CudA and ECudA DNA-binding sites contain a dyad and, consistent with a symmetrical binding site, CudA forms a homodimer in the yeast two-hybrid system. Mutation of CudA binding sites within the cotC promoter reduces expression from cotC in prespore cells. The CudA and ECudA proteins share a 120 amino acid core of homology, and clustered point mutations introduced into two highly conserved motifs within the ECudA core region decrease its specific DNA binding in vitro. This region, the presumptive DNA-binding domain, is similar in sequence to domains in two Arabidopsis proteins and one Oryza protein. Significantly, these are the only proteins in the two plant species that contain an SH2 domain. Such a structure, with a DNA-binding domain located upstream of an SH2 domain, suggests that the plant proteins are orthologous to metazoan STATs. Consistent with this notion, the DNA sequence of the CudA half site, GAA, is identical to metazoan STAT half sites, although the relative positions of the two halves of the dyad are reversed. These results define a hitherto unrecognised class of transcription factors and suggest a model for the evolution of STATs and their DNA-binding sites.	Yamada Y, Wang HY, Fukuzawa M, Barton GJ, Williams JG (2008) A new family of transcription factors. Development 135: 3093--101	http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18701541
ULT	During development, trithorax group (trxG) chromatin remodeling complexes counteract repression by Polycomb group (PcG) complexes to sustain active expression of key regulatory genes. Although PcG complexes are well characterized in plants, little isknown about trxG activities. Here we demonstrate that the Arabidopsis SAND (Sp100, AIRE-1, NucP41/75, DEAF-1) domain protein ULTRAPETALA1 (ULT1) functions as a trxG factor that counteracts the PcG-repressive activity of CURLY LEAF. In floral stem cells, ULT1 protein associates directly with the master homeotic locus AGAMOUS, inducing its expression by regulating its histone methylation status. Our analysis introduces a novel mechanism that mediates epigenetic switches controlling post-embryonic stem cell fates in plants.	Carles CC, Fletcher JC (2009) The SAND domain protein ULTRAPETALA1 acts as a trithorax group factor to regulate cell fate in plants. Genes Dev 23: 2723--8	http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19952107
