TR	Description	Literature	Link
ARID	In plants, each male meiotic product undergoes mitosis, and then one of the resulting cells divides again, yielding a three-celled pollen grain comprised of a vegetative cell and two sperm cells. Several genes have been found to act in this process, and DUO1 (DUO POLLEN 1), a transcription factor, plays a key role in sperm cell formation by activating expression of several germline genes. But how DUO1 itself is activated and how sperm cell formation is initiated remain unknown. To expand our understanding of sperm cell formation, we characterized an ARID (AT-Rich Interacting Domain)-containing protein, ARID1, that is specifically required for sperm cell formation in Arabidopsis. ARID1 localizes within nuclear bodies that are transiently present in the generative cell from which sperm cells arise, coincident with the timing of DUO1 activation. An arid1 mutant and antisense arid1 plants had an increased incidence of pollen with only a single sperm-like cell and exhibited reduced fertility as well as reduced expression of DUO1. In vitro and in vivo evidence showed that ARID1 binds to the DUO1 promoter. Lastly, we found that ARID1 physically associates with histone deacetylase 8 and that histone acetylation, which in wild type is evident only in sperm, expanded to the vegetative cell nucleus in the arid1 mutant. This study identifies a novel component required for sperm cell formation in plants and uncovers a direct positive regulatory role of ARID1 on DUO1 through association with histone acetylation.	Zheng B, He H, Zheng Y, Wu W, McCormick S (2014) An ARID domain-containing protein within nuclear bodies is required for sperm cell formation in Arabidopsis thaliana. PLoS Genet 10: e1004421	http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25057814
IWS1	Plant steroid hormones, brassinosteroids (BRs), regulate essential growth and developmental processes. BRs signal through membrane-localized receptor BRI1 and several other signaling components to regulate the BES1 and BZR1 family transcription factors, which in turn control the expression of hundreds of target genes. However, knowledge about the transcriptional mechanisms by which BES1/BZR1 regulate gene expression is limited. By a forward genetic approach, we have discovered that Arabidopsis thaliana Interact-With-Spt6 (AtIWS1), an evolutionarily conserved protein implicated in RNA polymerase II (RNAPII) postrecruitment and transcriptional elongation processes, is required for BR-induced gene expression. Loss-of-function mutations in AtIWS1 lead to overall dwarfism in Arabidopsis, reduced BR response, genome-wide decrease in BR-induced gene expression, and hypersensitivity to a transcription elongation inhibitor. Moreover, AtIWS1 interacts with BES1 both in vitro and in vivo. Chromatin immunoprecipitation experiments demonstrated that the presence of AtIWS1 is enriched in transcribed as well as promoter regions of the target genes under BR-induced conditions. Our results suggest that AtIWS1 is recruited to target genes by BES1 to promote gene expression during transcription elongation process. Recent genomic studies have indicated that a large number of genes could be regulated at steps after RNAPII recruitment; however, the mechanisms for such regulation have not been well established. The study therefore not only establishes an important role for AtIWS1 in plant steroid-induced gene expression but also suggests an exciting possibility that IWS1 protein can function as a target for pathway-specific activators, thereby providing a unique mechanism for the control of gene expression.	Li L, Ye H, Guo H, Yin Y (2010) Arabidopsis IWS1 interacts with transcription factor BES1 and is involved in plant steroid hormone brassinosteroid regulated gene expression. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 107: 3918--23	http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20139304
MED7	Mediator is a modular multiprotein complex required for regulated transcription by RNA polymerase (Pol) II. Here, we show that the middle module of the Mediator core contains a submodule of unique structure and function that comprises the N-terminal part of subunit Med7 (Med7N) and the highly conserved subunit Med31 (Soh1). The Med7N/31 submodule shows a conserved novel fold, with two proline-rich stretches in Med7N wrapping around the right-handed four-helix bundle of Med31. In vitro, Med7N/31 is required for activated transcription and can act in trans when added exogenously. In vivo, Med7N/31 has a predominantly positive function on the expression of a specific subset of genes, including genes involved in methionine metabolism and iron transport. Comparative phenotyping and transcriptome profiling identify specific and overlapping functions of different Mediator submodules.	Koschubs T, Seizl M, Larivière L, Kurth F, Baumli S, Martin DE, Cramer P (2009) Identification, structure, and functional requirement of the Mediator submodule Med7N/31. EMBO J 28: 69--80	http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19057509
RB	Retinoblastoma protein (Rb) plays a key role in cell cycle control, cell differentiation, and apoptosis in animals. In this study, we used virus-induced gene silencing (VIGS) to investigate the cellular functions of Rb in higher plants. VIGS of NbRBR1, which encodes the Nicotiana benthamiana Rb homolog, resulted in growth retardation and abnormal organ development. At the cellular level, Rb suppression caused prolonged cell proliferation in tissues that are normally differentiated, which indicates that Rb is a negative regulator of plant cell division. Furthermore, differentiation of the epidermal pavement cells and trichomes was partially retarded, and stomatal clusters formed in the epidermis, likely due to uncontrolled cell division of stomata precursor cells. Rb suppression also caused extra DNA replication in endoreduplicating leaf cells, suggesting a role of Rb in the endocycle. These Rb phenotypes were accompanied by stimulated transcription of E2F and E2F-regulated S-phase genes. Thus, disruption of Rb function in plants leads to ectopic cell division in major organs that correlates with a delay in cell differentiation as well as increased endoreduplication, which indicates that Rb coordinates these processes in plant organ development.	Park J-A, Ahn J-W, Kim Y-K, Kim SJ, Kim J-K, Kim WT, Pai H-S (2005) Retinoblastoma protein regulates cell proliferation, differentiation, and endoreduplication in plants. Plant J 42: 153--63	Park J-A, Ahn J-W, Kim Y-K, Kim SJ, Kim J-K, Kim WT, Pai H-S (2005) Retinoblastoma protein regulates cell proliferation, differentiation, and endoreduplication in plants. Plant J 42: 153--63
SWI/SNF-BAF60b	SWI/SNF-type ATP-dependent chromatin remodeling complexes (CRCs) are evolutionarily conserved multiprotein machineries controlling DNA accessibility by regulating chromatin structure. We summarize here recent advances highlighting the role of SWI/SNF in the regulation of hormone signaling pathways and their crosstalk in Arabidopsis thaliana. We discuss the functional interdependences of SWI/SNF complexes and key elements regulating developmental and hormone signaling pathways by indicating intriguing similarities and differences in plants and humans, and summarize proposed mechanisms of SWI/SNF action on target loci. We postulate that, given their viability, several plant SWI/SNF mutants may serve as an attractive model for searching for conserved functions of SWI/SNF CRCs in hormone signaling, cell cycle control, and other regulatory pathways.	Sarnowska E, Gratkowska DM, Sacharowski SP, Cwiek P, Tohge T, Fernie AR, Siedlecki JA, Koncz C, Sarnowski TJ (2016) The Role of SWI/SNF Chromatin Remodeling Complexes in Hormone Crosstalk. Trends Plant Sci 21: 594--608	http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26920655
AUX/IAA	Aux/IAA genes are early auxin response genes that encode short-lived nuclear proteins with four conserved domains, referred to as I, II, III, and IV. Arabidopsis Aux/IAA proteins repressed transcription on auxin-responsive reporter genes in protoplast transfection assays. Mutations in domain II resulted in increased repression, whereas mutations in domains I and III partially relieved repression. Aux/IAA proteins fused to a heterologous DNA binding domain were targeted to promoters of constitutively expressed reporter genes and actively repressed transcription in an auxin-responsive and dose-dependent manner. In comparison with an unfused luciferase protein, luciferase fused to Aux/IAA proteins displayed less luciferase activity, which further decreased in the presence of auxin in transfected protoplasts. Domain II mutations increased and domain I mutations decreased luciferase activity with the fusion proteins. These results suggested that Aux/IAA proteins function as active repressors by dimerizing with auxin response factors bound to auxin response elements and that early auxin response genes are regulated by auxin-modulated stabilities of Aux/IAA proteins.	Tiwari SB, Wang XJ, Hagen G, Guilfoyle TJ (2001) AUX/IAA proteins are active repressors, and their stability and activity are modulated by auxin. Plant Cell 13: 2809--22	http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/11752389
Jumonji	The first Jumonji gene was cloned in 1995 by Takeuchi et al. [Takeuchi T, Yamazaki Y, Katoh-Fukui Y, Tsuchiya R, Kondo S, Motoyama J, Higashinakagawa T. Gene trap capture of a novel mouse gene, jumonji, required for neural tube formation. Genes Dev 1995; 9: 1211-22.]. Several genes sharing similar biological features have since been discovered, and are currently grouped into the JMJ family. Interestingly, their deregulation has been associated with cardiac disease, obesity, neurological disorders and cancer. One of the mechanisms underlying their function is gene expression modulation via histone post-translational modifications (PTMs). Increasing evidence of Jumonji deregulation in tumours such as colon, prostate, haematological and breast cancer is continually emerging, hence the need to acquire a better understanding. The Genesapiens.org database of patient arrays allows target expression levels to be investigated in a wide range of cancers, corroborating and extending the role of the JMJ family. Here, we provide an overview of the expression profile and regulation of JMJ fammembers in cancer, examining the most recent literature in the light of analyses drawn from this database.	Franci G, Ciotta A, Altucci L (2014) The Jumonji family: past, present and future of histone demethylases in cancer. Biomol Concepts 5: 209--24	http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25372754
mTERF	Organellar gene expression (OGE) is crucial for plant development, photosynthesis, and respiration, but our understanding of the mechanisms that control it is still relatively poor. Thus, OGE requires various nucleus-encoded proteins that promote transcription, splicing, trimming, and editing of organellar RNAs, and regulate translation. In metazoans, proteins of the mitochondrial Transcription tERmination Factor (mTERF) family interact with the mitochondrial chromosome and regulate transcriptional initiation and termination. Sequencing of the Arabidopsis thaliana genome led to the identification of a diversified MTERF gene family but, in contrast to mammalian mTERFs, knowledge about the function of these proteins in photosynthetic organisms is scarce. In this hypothesis article, I show that tandem duplications and one block duplication contributed to the large number of MTERF genes in A. thaliana, and propose that the expansion of the family is related to the evolution of land plants. The MTERF genes-especially the duplicated genes-display a number of distinct mRNA accumulation patterns, suggesting functional diversification of mTERF proteins to increase adaptability to environmental changes. Indeed, hypothetical functions for the different mTERF proteins can be predicted using co-expression analysis and gene ontology (GO) annotations. On this basis, mTERF proteins can be sorted into five groups. Members of the ""chloroplast"" and ""chloroplast-associated"" clusters are principally involved in chloroplast gene expression, embryogenesis, and protein catabolism, while representatives of the ""mitochondrial"" cluster seem to participate in DNA and RNA metabolism in that organelle. Moreover, members of the ""mitochondrion-associated"" cluster and the ""low expression"" group may act in the nucleus and/or the cytosol. As proteins involved in OGE and presumably nuclear gene expression (NGE), mTERFs are ideal candidates for the coordination of the expression of organelle and nuclear genomes.	Kleine T (2012) Arabidopsis thaliana mTERF proteins: evolution and functional classification. Front Plant Sci 3: 233	http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23087700
Rcd1-like	The RCD1 protein is a regulator of both developmental and stress responses in Arabidopsis thaliana and it interacts with several transcription factors. Its closest homolog, SRO1, seems to be dispensable for proper plant responses but the hardly viable phenotype of the rcd1 sro1 double mutant reveals that it encodes a functional protein that can partially compensate for the loss of RCD1 in the single rcd1 mutant. Both RCD1 and SRO1 contain a WWE domain, the catalytic core of poly(ADP-ribose) polymerases and a novel conserved domain termed RST which is also found in the transcription initiation complex component TAF4. Here we summarize recent findings on the protein-protein interactions mediated by RCD1 and highlight the different functional possibilities that form the basis of our future experiments concerning the biochemical function of RCD1.	Jaspers P, Brosché M, Overmyer K, Kangasjärvi J (2010) The transcription factor interacting protein RCD1 contains a novel conserved domain. Plant Signal Behav 5: 78--80	http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20592818
SWI/SNF-SWI3	SWI/SNF-type ATP-dependent chromatin remodeling complexes (CRCs) are evolutionarily conserved multiprotein machineries controlling DNA accessibility by regulating chromatin structure. We summarize here recent advances highlighting the role of SWI/SNF in the regulation of hormone signaling pathways and their crosstalk in Arabidopsis thaliana. We discuss the functional interdependences of SWI/SNF complexes and key elements regulating developmental and hormone signaling pathways by indicating intriguing similarities and differences in plants and humans, and summarize proposed mechanisms of SWI/SNF action on target loci. We postulate that, given their viability, several plant SWI/SNF mutants may serve as an attractive model for searching for conserved functions of SWI/SNF CRCs in hormone signaling, cell cycle control, and other regulatory pathways.	Sarnowska E, Gratkowska DM, Sacharowski SP, Cwiek P, Tohge T, Fernie AR, Siedlecki JA, Koncz C, Sarnowski TJ (2016) The Role of SWI/SNF Chromatin Remodeling Complexes in Hormone Crosstalk. Trends Plant Sci 21: 594--608	http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26920655
Coactivator p15	We have analyzed the mechanisms underlying stimulation of transcription by the activator GAL4-AH and the recombinant coactivator p15 (PC4). We show that p15 binds to both double-stranded and single-stranded DNA. Analyses of deletion mutants correlates binding to double-stranded DNA with the ability to mediate activator-dependent transcription. Consistent with this finding, phosphorylation of p15 by casein kinase II inhibits binding to double-stranded DNA and the activity of p15. The functional characterization suggests interactions of p15 with both DNA and components of the TFIID complex. GAL4-AH functions in concert with p15 during formation of TFIIA-TFIID-promoter (DA) complexes, as concluded from order-of-addition experiments. At limiting TFIID concentrations, the number of DA complexes is enhanced. The activator also stimulates transcription moderately after DA complex formation, independently of the concentrations of general transcription factors.	Kaiser K, Stelzer G, Meisterernst M (1995) The coactivator p15 (PC4) initiates transcriptional activation during TFIIA-TFIID-promoter complex formation. EMBO J 14: 3520--7	http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/7628453
LUG	Transcription corepressors are general regulators controlling the expression of genes involved in multiple signaling pathways and developmental programs. Repression is mediated through mechanisms including the stabilization of a repressive chromatin structure over control regions and regulation of Mediator function inhibiting RNA polymerase II activity. Using whole-genome arrays we show that the Arabidopsis thaliana corepressor LEUNIG, a member of the GroTLE transcription corepressor family, regulates the expression of multiple targets in vivo. LEUNIG has a role in the regulation of genes involved in a number of different physiological processes including disease resistance, DNA damage response, and cell signaling. We demonstrate that repression of in vivo LEUNIG targets is achieved through histone deacetylase (HDAC)-dependent and -independent mechanisms. HDAC-dependent mechanisms involve direct interaction with HDA19, a class 1 HDAC, whereas an HDAC-independent repression activity involves interactions with the putative Arabidopsis Mediator components AtMED14/SWP and AtCDK8/HEN3. We suggest that changes in chromatin structure coupled with regulation of Mediator function are likely to be utilized by LEUNIG in the repression of gene transcription.	Gonzalez D, Bowen AJ, Carroll TS, Conlan RS (2007) The transcription corepressor LEUNIG interacts with the histone deacetylase HDA19 and mediator components MED14 (SWP) and CDK8 (HEN3) to repress transcription. Mol Cell Biol 27: 5306--15	http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17526732
SET	Histone 3 lysine 4 (H3K4) methylation is a universal epigenetic mark. In mammals, there are six H3K4 methyltransferases related to yeast Set1 and fly Trithorax, including two orthologs of Set1: Setd1a and Setd1b. Here we show that mouse Setd1a is required for gastrulation, whereas Setd1b-deficient embryos survive to E11.5 but are grossly retarded. Setd1a knockout embryos implant but do not proceed past the epiblast. Furthermore, Setd1a is not required until the inner cell mass has formed, at which stage it has replaced Mll2 as the major H3K4 methyltransferase. Setd1a is required for embryonic, epiblast and neural stem cell survival and neural stem cell reprogramming, whereas Setd1b is dispensable. Deletion of Setd1a in embryonic stem cells resulted in rapid losses of bulk H3K4 methylation, pluripotency gene expression and proliferation, with G1 pileup. Setd1b overexpression could not rescue the proliferation defects caused by loss of Setd1a in embryonic stem cells. The precise developmental requirement for Setd1a suggests that gastrulation is regulated by a switch between the major H3K4 methyltransferases.	Bledau AS, Schmidt K, Neumann K, Hill U, Ciotta G, Gupta A, Torres DC, Fu J, Kranz A, Stewart AF, et al (2014) The H3K4 methyltransferase Setd1a is first required at the epiblast stage, whereas Setd1b becomes essential after gastrulation. Development 141: 1022--35	http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24550110
TAZ	A novel CaM-binding protein was isolated through protein-protein interaction based screening of an Arabidopsis cDNA expression library using a 35S calmodulin (CaM) probe. There are four additional homolos in the Arabidopsis genome with similar structures: a BTB domain in the N-terminus and a Zf-TAZ domain in the C-terminus. Hence, they were designated as AtBT1-5 (Arabidopsis thaliana BTB and TAZ domain protein). CaM-binding experiments revealed that all five AtBTs are CaM-binding proteins, and their CaM-binding domains were mapped to the C-terminus. AtBT homologs are also present in rice, but are not present in human, animal, yeast or other organisms, suggesting that the BTB and TAZ domain proteins are plant-specific. The AtBT1-smGFP fusion protein expressed in tobacco BY-2 cells showed that AtBT1 targets the nucleus. Yeast two-hybrid screening using an AtBT1 fragment as bait identified two interacting proteins (AtBET10 and AtBET9) belonging to the family of fsh/Ring3 class transcription regulators. The BTB domain of the AtBTs is required for the interaction, and this protein-protein interaction was confirmed by GST pull-down. AtBET10 also interacts with AtBT2 and AtBT4, and exhibited a transcriptional activation function in yeast cells. AtBTs exhibit varying responses to different stress stimuli, but all five genes responded rapidly to H2O2 and salicylic acid (SA) treatments. These results suggest that AtBTs play a role in transcriptional regulation, and signal molecules such as Ca2+, H2O2, and SA affect transcriptional machinery by altering the expression and conformation of AtBTs which interact with transcriptional activators such as AtBET10.	Du L, Poovaiah BW (2004) A novel family of Ca2+/calmodulin-binding proteins involved in transcriptional regulation: interaction with fsh/Ring3 class transcription activators. Plant Mol Biol 54: 549--69	http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15316289
GNAT	Transcriptional co-activators were originally identified as proteins that act as intermediaries between upstream activators and the basal transcription machinery. The discovery that co-activators such as Tetrahymena and yeast Gcn5, as well as human p300/CBP, pCAF, Src-1, ACTR and TAFII250, can acetylate histones suggests that activators may be involved in targeting acetylation activity to promoters. Several histone deacetylases have been linked to transcriptional co-repressor proteins, suggesting that the action of both acetylases and deacetylases is important in the regulation of many genes. Here we demonstrate the binding of two native yeast histone acetyltransferase (HAT) complexes to the herpesvirus VP16 activation domain and the yeast transcriptional activator Gcn4, and show that it is their interaction with the VP16 activation domain that targets Gal4-VP16-bound nucleosomes for acetylation. We find that Gal4-VP16-driven transcription from chromatin templates is stimulated by both HAT complexes in an acetyl CoA-dependent reaction. Our results demonstrate the targeting of native HAT complexes by a transcription-activation domain to nucleosomes in order to activate transcription.	Utley RT, Ikeda K, Grant PA, Côté J, Steger DJ, Eberharter A, John S, Workman JL (1998) Transcriptional activators direct histone acetyltransferase complexes to nucleosomes. Nature 394: 498--502	http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/9697775
MBF1	Multiprotein bridging factor 1 (MBF1) is a transcriptional cofactor that bridges between the TATA box-binding protein (TBP) and the Drosophila melanogaster nuclear hormone receptor FTZ-F1 or its silkworm counterpart BmFTZ-F1. A cDNA clone encoding MBF1 was isolated from the silkworm Bombyx mori whose sequence predicts a basic protein consisting of 146 amino acids. Bacterially expressed recombinant MBF1 is functional in interactions with TBP and a positive cofactor MBF2. The recombinant MBF1 also makes a direct contact with FTZ-F1 through the C-terminal region of the FTZ-F1 DNA-binding domain and stimulates the FTZ-F1 binding to its recognition site. The central region of MBF1 (residues 35-113) is essential for the binding of FTZ-F1, MBF2, and TBP. When the recombinant MBF1 was added to a HeLa cell nuclear extract in the presence of MBF2 and FTZ622 bearing the FTZ-F1 DNA-binding domain, it supported selective transcriptional activation of the fushi tarazu gene as natural MBF1 did. Mutations disrupting the binding of FTZ622 to DNA or MBF1, or a MBF2 mutation disrupting the binding to MBF1, all abolished the selective activation of transcription. These results suggest that tethering of the positive cofactor MBF2 to a FTZ-F1-binding site through FTZ-F1 and MBF1 is essential for the binding site-dependent activation of transcription. A homology search in the databases revealed that the deduced amino acid sequence of MBF1 is conserved across species from yeast to human.	Takemaru K i, Li FQ, Ueda H, Hirose S (1997) Multiprotein bridging factor 1 (MBF1) is an evolutionarily conserved transcriptional coactivator that connects a regulatory factor and TATA element-binding protein. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 94: 7251--6	http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/9207077
PHD	The PHD finger is a common structural motif found in all eukaryotic genomes. It is a Zn(2+)-binding domain and its closest structural relative is the RING domain. Many RING fingers bind to E2 ligases to mediate the ubiquitination of proteins. Whether PHD fingers share a common function is unclear. Notably, many if not all PHD fingers are found in nuclear proteins whose substrate tends to be chromatin. Some PHD fingers bind to specific nuclear protein partners, apparently through the same surface that is used by RING domains to bind their cognate E2 ligases. New evidence also suggests that some PHD fingers bind to nucleosomes, raising the possibility that chromatin might be a common nuclear ligand of PHD fingers.	Bienz M (2006) The PHD finger, a nuclear protein-interaction domain. Trends Biochem Sci 31: 35--40	http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16297627
SNF2	Chromatin facilitates the housing of eukaryotic DNA within the nucleus and restricts access to the underlying sequences. Thus, the regulation of chromatin structure provides an excellent platform for regulating processes that require information stored within genomic DNA. Snf2 proteins are a family of helicase-like proteins that direct energy derived from ATP hydrolysis into the mechanical remodelling of chromatin structure. Here, we highlight some of the recent discoveries regarding this family of proteins and show Snf2 proteins have roles in many aspects of genetic metabolism. Recent developments include new insights into the mechanism for nucleosome spacing and histone dimer exchange; together with growing evidence for the involvement of Snf2 proteins in DNA repair.	Ryan DP, Owen-Hughes T (2011) Snf2-family proteins: chromatin remodellers for any occasion. Curr Opin Chem Biol 15: 649--56	http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21862382
TRAF	In animals, Tumor necrosis factor receptor-associated factor (TRAF) proteins are molecular adaptors that regulate innate and adaptive immunity, development, and abiotic stress responses. Although gene families encoding TRAF domain-containing proteins exhibit enriched diversity in higher plants, their biological roles are poorly defined. Here, we report the identification of two redundant TRAF proteins, Mutant, snc1-enhancing 13 (MUSE13) and MUSE14, that contribute to the turnover of nucleotide-binding domain and leucine-rich repeat-containing (NLR) immune receptors SNC1 and RPS2. Loss of both MUSE13 and MUSE14 leads to enhanced pathogen resistance, NLR accumulation, and autoimmunity, while MUSE13 overexpression results in reduced NLR levels and activity. In planta, MUSE13 associates with SNC1, RPS2, and the E3 ubiquitin ligase SCF(CPR1). Taken together, we speculate that MUSE13 and MUSE14 associate with the SCF E3 ligase complex to form a plant-type TRAFasome, which modulates ubiquitination and subsequent degradation of NLR immune sensors to maintain their homeostasis.	Huang S, Chen X, Zhong X, Li M, Ao K, Huang J, Li X (2016) Plant TRAF Proteins Regulate NLR Immune Receptor Turnover. Cell Host Microbe 19: 204--15	http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26867179
HMG	The HMG-box is an approximately 75-amino acid residue protein domain that occurs in all eukaryotic organisms and was first identified as a characteristic feature of the chromosomal high mobility group (HMG) proteins of the HMGB type. Structural studies have demonstrated that the L-shaped fold of the domain formed by three Î±-helices is conserved to a greater extent than expected from amino acid sequence similarity between different HMG-boxes. The long arm consists of helix III and the N-terminal extended strand, whereas the short arm of the L-shape is composed of helices I and II forming an angle of approximately 80Â° between the arms (Thomas and Travers, 2001; Stros et al., 2007). The HMG-box domain mediates DNA binding primarily through the minor groove of DNA. Hydrophobic residues of the concave face of the L-shaped molecule partially intercalate between the DNA bases, thereby widening the minor groove, which results in unwinding and remarkable bending of the DNA helix. Thus, the HMG-box domain binds the outside of the DNA bend, compressing the major groove (Thomas and Travers, 2001; Stros, 2010). Some HMG-ox proteins can interact with DNA sequence specifically (e.g. mammalian transcription factors such as SEX DETERMINING REGION OF Y [SRY] and LYMPHOID ENHANCHER-BINDING FACTOR1 [LEF-1]), whereas other HMG-box proteins bind DNA sequence independently (e.g. chromosomal HMGB proteins and Structure-Specific Recognition Protein1 [SSRP1]). A typical feature of both types of HMG- box domains is their selective binding to certain DNA structures, including four-way junctions and DNA minicircles (Bustin, 1999; Thomas and Travers, 2001; Stros et al., 2007; Wegner, 2010). Because HMG-box proteins induce DNA bending upon binding to linear DNA, they often act as architectural facilitators in the assembly of nucleoprotein complexes involved in transcription, recombination, or other DNA-dependent processes (Bustin, 1999; Thomas and Travers, 2001; Stros et al., 2007).	Antosch M, Mortensen SA, Grasser KD (2012) Plant proteins containing high mobility group box DNA-binding domains modulate different nuclear processes. Plant Physiol 159: 875--83	http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22585776
MED6	A temperature-sensitive mutation was obtained in Med6p, a component of the mediator complex from the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae. The mediator complex has been shown to enable transcriptional activation in vitro. This mutation in Med6p abolished activation of transcription from four of five inducible promoters tested in vivo. There was no effect, however, on uninduced transcription, transcription of constitutively expressed genes, or transcription by RNA polymerases I and III. Mediator-RNA polymerase II complex isolated from the mutant yeast strain was temperature sensitive for transcriptional activation in a reconstituted in vitro system due to a defect in initiation complex formation. A database search revealed the existence of MED6-related genes in humans and Caenorhabditis elegans, suggesting that the role of mediator in transcriptional activation is conserved throughout the evolution.	Lee YC, Min S, Gim BS, Kim YJ (1997) A transcriptional mediator protein that is required for activation of many RNA polymerase II promoters and is conserved from yeast to humans. Mol Cell Biol 17: 4622--32	http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/9234719
Pseudo ARR-B	In Arabidopsis thaliana, a Histidine-to-Aspartate (His-->Asp) phosphorelay is involved in the signal transduction for propagation of certain stimuli, such as plant hormones. Through the phosphorelay, the type-B phospho-acepting response regulator (ARR) family members serve as DNA-binding transcriptional regulators, whose activities are most likely regulated by phosphorylation/dephosphorylation. Based on the fact that this higher plant has 11 type-B ARR family genes, we clarified the expression profiles for all of their transcripts in plants. We constructed and characterized a series of transgenic lines, each carrying a given ARR-promoter::GUS transgene. Transcripts of some type-B ARR family genes were detected more or less ubiquitously in many organs tested, while others were expressed predominantly in reproductive organs. These ARR family members were phylogenetically classified into three sub-families, the largest of which includes the well-characterized ARR1, ARR2, and ARR11. Comparative studies were conducted focusing on ARR20 and ARR21, each of which is a representative member of an uncharacterized minor sub-family. A set of transgenic lines was constructed, in each of which a C-terminal DNA-binding domain lacking the N-terminal phospho-accepting receiver of a given ARR was aberrantly overexpressed. These resulting transgenic lines, including ARR14-C-ox, ARR20-C-ox, and ARR21-C-ox, showed characteristic anomalies during development. These results are discussed with special reference to the His-->Asp phosphorelay signal transduction in A. thaliana.	Tajima Y, Imamura A, Kiba T, Amano Y, Yamashino T, Mizuno T (2004) Comparative studies on the type-B response regulators revealing their distinctive properties in the His-to-Asp phosphorelay signal transduction of Arabidopsis thaliana. Plant Cell Physiol 45: 28--39	http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/14749483
SOH1	The soh1, soh2 and soh4 mutants were isolated as suppressors of the temperature-dependent growth of the hyperrecombination mutant hpr1 of Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Cloning and sequence analysis of these suppressor genes has unexpectedly shown them to code for components of the RNA polymerase II transcription complex. SOH2 is identical to RPB2, which encodes the second largest subunit of RNA polymerase II, and SOH4 is the same as SUA7, encoding the yeast transcription initiation factor TFIIB. SOH1 encodes a novel 14-kD protein with limited sequence similarity to RNA polymerases. Interestingly, SOH1 not only interacts with factors involved in DNA repair, but transcription as well. Thus, the Soh1 protein may serve to couple these two processes. The Soh1 protein interacts with a DNA repair protein, Rad5p, in a two-hybrid system assay. Soh1p may functionally interact with components of the RNA polymerase II complex as suggested from the synthetic lethality observed in soh1 rpb delta 104, soh1 soh2-1 (rpb2), and soh1 soh4 (sua7) double mutants. Because mutations in SOH1, RPB2 and SUA7 suppress the hyperrecombination phenotype of hpr1 mutants, this suggests a link between recombination in direct repeats and transcription.	Fan HY, Cheng KK, Klein HL (1996) Mutations in the RNA polymerase II transcription machinery suppress the hyperrecombination mutant hpr1 delta of Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Genetics 142: 749--59	http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/8849885
